   U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family Comments Feed alternate
Fewer than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family
   Less than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family
   Less than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family Rapid
   changes in American family structure have altered the image of who’s
   marrying young, then starting a family, and staying married till “death
   do they part,” the family has become more complex, and less
   One of the largest shifts in family structure is this: 34% of children
       and family demographics at Pew Research Center.
       The family can be complicated, especially in these times. There are
       Although there are many different kinds of families, and many can
       find success through love and nurture, I feel that a family headed
       get out, quit, and that seems to be a rising trend in the family as
       well. When a family is broken there is lost opportunity for mutual
       sisters. Being in a family really needs to be about putting the
       have the perspective that their family can last longer than just
       potential in the family. Some of our greatest difficulties can come
       through family issues, but at the same time, the greatest happiness
       we can and will ever experience will be through our families.
                      Children in intact families do better on every
       and aren’t ready to handle family or marriage as well… and when
       thankless suffering from their husbands family,a nd from the
       My family is in the “two married parents, one or both remarried”
       any effect on my children, so I’m bewildered that my family is put
       Widespread divorce and family breakdown, single motherhood,
       The traditional family is not an anomaly…it is God’s design for
       don’t let anyone mislead you to think that the traditional family
       today’s society. It is the ONLY right way to have a family, in
            communities? God is dying, and so is the “traditional” family.
                      families.
                      “traditional” family is only a few centuries old and
            what the hell how could you say that any family is the right
       meaningful change in the proportion of families with at least one
       remarried parent or the proportion of no-parent families since
       Nobody in my family reflects the fears of some of these
       society-wreckers. And everybody in my family loves *family* just as
       each other or stop valuing family. Life happens. It’s messy. It
       doesn’t really matter what shape a family is. I guess mine is at
       the family over. Shortly after they reunited here, he died. My
       who came from a “Beaver Cleaver” family, but…even his dad had been
       What we thought of as normal…the traditional family life style for
       Unless we can restore the concept of a nuclear family as the norm,
            the so-called “traditional” family has waned as government has
                 Get real!! Families are changing – not for the
            broken families have on children. I do NOT disagree with
       I would bet fewer children grew up in “traditional families” in the
       Can we change the terminology from “traditional” family to
       “post-war” family or “boomer” family? “Traditional” sounds like the
       family structure has been the same for eons and eons that only
            Yes in fact the ‘Leave it to Beaver’ style family of the 1950s
            shorthand way of describing this 1950s-era family structure, I
                 family.” Especially, given the fact that 40-50% of those
                 “Father Knows Best” family marriages end in divorce.
       The ‘traditional’ family is hardly traditional at all. As an avid
       family history hunter, I have discovered (within my own family at
       least) families which have one set of parents are very few and far
       traditional’ families and those of yesteryear, is that today’s
       families have been ‘broken’ by choice rather than death. I have one
       fellow in my family tree who married three times, resulting in
       marriages? Death in child birth. Today’s ‘non-traditional families’
            really discussing here is the “post-war” family, and not some
            static “traditional” family that magically stayed intact
            families. While there are errors in the Census they tend to be
            2. Church records also reflect two parent families.
            residents. These records also reflect traditional family
            4. Other records that also will give you information on family
            What makes a traditional family is more than that; its that
       families…those boys whose fathers were absent from the household
       As the family goes so goes society. Too bad. USA RIP.
       the family. Kids can struggle in school in their drive and
       As the traditional family goes, so goes the morality of this
            You can’t consider traditional families to be “stable” when
            in divorce. So, there really are no traditional families to
            Many “traditional “families are disrespectful of women,
       much is made about single parent families in the African American
            There are a lot of single-parent household families in poor
            families, especially in the housing projects in those two
                 without denigrating lesbian and gay families. If you lump
                 LGB married families with a second group consisting of
                 single parent families and yet another group consisting
                 of cohabiting, unmarried families, the resulting group is
                 not accurately described as “Single Parent Family.” Since
                 (i.e., breaking out LGB families and folding them into an
       Griff show, and so on like family base shows. I would love to see
            Darnell: Not to be a kill joy but as far as “old” TV family
