1. The American family today
   For children, growing diversity in family living arrangements Family
   And families are smaller now, both due to the growth of single-parent
   or living with a non-marital partner. At the same time that family
   in their families.
   As a result of these changes, there is no longer one dominant family
   family forms. By contrast, in 1960, the height of the post-World War II
   baby boom, there was one dominant family form. At that time 73% of all
   children were living in a family with two married parents in their
   family, and today less than half (46%) are. The declining share of
   children living in what is often deemed a “traditional” family has been
   Not only has the diversity in family living arrangements increased
   since the early 1960s, but so has the fluidity of the family.
   remarriage and (non-marital) recoupling in the U.S., make for family
   experienced a major change in their family or household structure, in
The growing complexity and diversity of families
   century: 69% are in this type of family arrangement today, compared
   parents are more likely to be experiencing a variety of family
The rise of single-parent families, and changes in two-parent families
   In the remainder of two-parent families, the parents are cohabiting but
   The decline in children living in two-parent families has been offset
Blended families
   One-in-six kids is living in a blended family According to the most
   “blended families” – a household with a stepparent, stepsibling or
   lived in blended family households. All told, about 8% are living with
   Many, but not all, remarriages involve blended families.^13 According
   (63%) women in remarriages are in blended families, and about half of
   blended family. About 17% of Hispanic and black kids are living with a
   blended families. This low share is consistent with the finding that
The shrinking American family
   in smaller families. In the mid-1970s, a 40% plurality of mothers who
   family size.
   Among Hispanics and the less educated, bigger families Family size
   the National Survey of Family Growth. In fact, over the past 20 years,
   changes in family structure that have occurred over the past several
   decades, family life has been greatly affected by the movement of more
   families, mean that more than ever, mothers are playing the role of
   breadwinner—often the primary breadwinner—within their families.
   In four-in-ten families, mom is the primary breadwinner Today, 40% of
   families with children under 18 at home include mothers who earn the
   majority of the family income.^18 This share is up from 11% in 1960 and
   earn more than their husbands. While families with married breadwinner
   moms tend to have higher median incomes than married-parent families
   where the father earns more ($88,000 vs. $84,500), families headed by
   families. In 2014, the median annual income for unmarried mother
   families was just $24,000.
   Breadwinner moms are particularly common in black families, spurred by
   spouses. Asian families are less likely to have a woman as the main
   breadwinner in their families, presumably due to their extremely low
   families. In roughly three-in-ten of stay-at-home-mom families, either
   working mothers. And the median household income for families with a
   roughly half the median income for families in which both parents work
       families that began as stepfamilies may no longer identify as such,
       many families may be “blended” but may not include parents who are
       formally married; those families are likely not captured in this
   13. While blended families all involve remarriage, not all remarriages
       produce blended families. Remarriages involving spouses who have no
       families. ↩
   18. Only families where the mother or father is the household head are
     * 1. The American family today
          + The growing complexity and diversity of families
     * Family and Relationships
     * Household and Family Structure
