The notion of family life
   The United Nations broadly defines a family as "any combination of two
   Committee of 1994 concentrated on a broad definition of the family as
   in order not to exclude anyone from forming part of the term "family".
   The term "family" is found in article 23 of the International Covenant
   family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is
   entitled to protection by society and the state". Family is said to be
   family.
   and women of marriageable age to marry and to form a family shall be
   covenant seems to indicate that a family is formed by a marriageable
   Marriage and family are seen synonymous as well in article 10 of the
   what a family is.
   Can a family be equated to family life or family environment? The
   concepts of family life can be found in the European Convention on
   Human Rights (ECHR) and family environment is found in the Convention
   The CRC in its preamble states that a child should "grow up in a family
   define what constitutes family life and family environment. Yet, case
   notion that family life includes also de facto families. In the
   family life between an unmarried mother and her child is created by the
   constitutes family life.
   fundamental constituent of family life.
   purposes, family life as stated in Johnston and Others vs Ireland
   Family life depends upon the existence of close personal ties.
   one's private and family life) to unmarried parents even if such
   the ambit of family life? In Price vs UK (1982), the ECtHR ruled that
   blood ties only are not enough to build family life between
   Neil Ferguson et al state that the existence of family life needs to be
   order to benefit from article 8's family life the content and the
   (Grandparenting In Divorced Families, Bristol, 2004, 74).
   of Appeal stated that the test to assess the term "family" under the
   unmarried cohabitating persons are deemed to be a "family" under the
   decisive in deciding what amounts to family life such as whether the
   It seems that the notion of family life is taken to embrace not only
