          + Family Dynamics
     * The Changing American Family
The Changing American Family
   man and woman with their children. So what do families look like now?
   think that the traditional All-American family was still intact -- Mom,
   guilt: This is the family you're supposed to have, supposed to want.
   In real life, in big cities and in smaller towns, families are single
   moms, they're stepfamilies, they're boyfriends and girlfriends not
   or two moms, they're a village. In real life, in 2005, families are
   In fact, the very definition of "family" is changing dramatically. The
   The change in the makeup of the American family is the result of two
   primary factors, says Martin O'Connell, chief of fertility and family
   wanted a family and, last June, adopted a baby boy.
   family and friends have stepped in," Hansell says.
   family setups than those involved in the childbirth industry. "I've
   here with one father and then come in with a new father -- the family
   cross section of American families and, while she doesn't ask the
   According to 1999 figures from the Population Resource Center, families
   Under the Family and Medical Leave Act, married partners can take leave
   health benefits, retirement, and so on, married families can "earn" 25
   assertively which type of family comes out ahead tax-wise.
   What is safe to say is that the kids of untraditional families can wind
   many impoverished kids are in untraditional families.
   University's Center for Family and Demographic Research and a
   psychological cost to raising a family without the mental safety net of
The Growth of Gay Families
   puts extra stress on gay and lesbian families, but Hamilton and Sumner
   in love with our family," Hamilton says.
   Some large employers are scrambling to catch up to how families are
Families, Privileges, and the Law
   Few laws protect untraditional families. In fact, at this point federal
   unmarried families can and do face discrimination in these key areas:
   "counts" as a family.
   The answer probably lies in making sure all families -- whether Mom and
   Discrimination against unmarried families is still real. But those
   families also have the love and courage it takes to press for change.
   That is what makes a family."
     * Family Circle
