   Home / About In Context / Caring for Families
                        The Changing American Family
               Dramatic changes in the shape of U.S. families
             One of the articles in Caring For Families (IC#21)
   As we head into the 21st century, changes within and among families in
   reshaping family life in the late 20th century. The new realities of
   family life are in sharp contrast with idealized notions of the family
   the family are creating profound contradictions in public policy. If
   the family is to be a healthy component in society, as it must be for
   society to survive, we need to understand anew what family is and what
THE CHANGING FAMILY
   The range of variation in "families" throughout history and across
   within all this variation: Families are a set of primary relationships
   – biological, emotional, social, economic, and legal. Families are also
   complicated relationships with each other and with society. Families
   shelter, and intimacy. Families also carry on tradition and culture
   If our discussions of families began from this broad understanding, we
   about families, and much of our policy and literature, assume a much
   more narrow definition of a "normal" family: a caretaking mother,
   senior citizens formed such families and many middle-aged adults grew
   up in them, but the composition and characteristics of families have
   family-based households (see figure below):
       family.
     * A majority of families have no children under age 18.
     * More than 25% of all families with children are single parent
       families; almost all of these have a female head of the household.
   and out of the labor force depending on family circumstances.)
   majority of younger families, it is no longer practical to think in
   terms of a "family wage" – enough income from one wage earner to
   support a family, the children’s education and the couple’s retirement.
   Virtually every younger family (and many older ones) now assumes that
   family.
   Family income has dropped over the last decade and a half, unless there
   released a report: "Trends in Family Income: 1970-1986." Staff of the
   Families analyzed these findings and concluded that although "family
   income for the typical family rose during this period … income gains
   were not evenly distributed. Low income families with children, young
   families at all income levels and poor single mother families in 1986
   family incomes rose was "the increased number of workers per family,
   not increased earnings by the typical worker. Many families with
   By contrast, among "elderly unrelated individuals and elderly families
   without children, median family income rose 50%." Noting that "earnings
   was often necessary to keep family income from falling…. These altered
   Even if the family wage concept were an actuality, the incidence of
   The physical and emotional work of maintaining families, especially
   economically self-sufficient have less tolerance for unequal familial
   their rights to power and control in family decision-making more
   not enter into, or depart from, what they consider intolerable family
   we still rely on families, as we have in the past, to produce healthy
   support a young family? Where will the time and effort for family life
   come from? Even more so for the 27% of U.S. families with children and
   families below the poverty line were female-headed, illustrating the
   difficulties posed when women alone try to maintain families, assuming
   reject marriage or motherhood, the creation of new families, because of
   work and family change? Will men share the caretaking and household
   need for family policies that take into account the diversity and
   changing nature of American families will need to be increasingly
   the costs borne almost solely by individual parents or families.
   attractive and less expensive to the individual and to families, or
   additional numbers of women and families will limit their child
   between society and the family will need to be devised. The elements of
   extra tax deductions for families with children, and the quality of
   control of the caretaking role in families. Even though women’s work in
   family care, part-time employment, and further education or training.
   changes in family circumstances. Health care support for the young and
   work and family life as satisfying and challenging as have some of the
   participating in family life breeds wisdom and satisfaction. Caretaking
   valued. As family life and children – the future incarnate – become
   families. Let us hope that we can use this common ground on behalf of
   families and children as a basis for new social innovations in the 21st
