How Family Structure has Changed
   Data about family structure illustrate how individuals in an area are
   organized into different family arrangements.
What is a Family?
   According to the U.S. Census Bureau, a family is "a group of two or
   live in different places fit in this definition of family? What about
   relatively common family arrangements are not officially recognized as
   families. While the Bureau's definition of families is clear and is
   our families fit this definition.
   of family is an inappropriate way to measure and examine families. In
   ancient Greece and in feudal Europe, a family was all of the people who
   adults are also considered part of the family if they play a large role
   helpful, there is no single understanding of what a family is; its
How Have Families Changed over Time, and Why?
   The structures, or forms, of the family vary as much as the definition
   itself. There is no single "true" family form. In Western Europe the
   nuclear family (a single set of biological parents residing together
   time in Eastern Europe multiple generations of the same family lived
   the United States has also seen many types of family forms throughout
   marriage reveals that the family forms we see today in the U.S. are
   actually the result of an evolution of the family that began with an
   A Family at the Beach
   A Family at the Beach
   the structure of the family at that time and into the future (p. 7).
   needs of a particular extended family group (Coontz, 2005).
   the structure of the family. In the 19^th Century an ideal of the
   the majority of families could not achieve this ideal, as few jobs paid
   wages high enough to support a single-earner family. This changed as
   cultural ideal gave rise to family trends in the 1950s and early 1960s
   that had never been seen before. "Ozzie and Harriet" families that
   family form at this time (McLanahan and Casper, 2001). The realization
   of the evolution of the family and marriage shows that the family has
   of the U.S. demonstrate that the structure of families are changing and
   people, the family itself is not disappearing.
Why Do Families Matter?
   The increasing diversity of the family in the U.S. has led scholars to
   examine if and how different family forms are associated with different
   has found that not all racial groups participate in each family type
   equally, thus not all family forms are equally available to all people
   of family (e.g., married with kids, married with no kids, single-parent
   benefits of marriage for families are due to a number of factors like:
   marriages (p. 309-310). While we see increasing diversity in family
   Are there differences in family structures between urban and rural
   Oregon communities in 1990 and 2000? Did the prevalence of some family
Links to additional sources of information about family structure
   National Survey of Families & Households, from University of
   ChildStats.gov, national indicators of child and family wellbeing
   from The Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics:
Family Structure-Related Terms
   family trends across the state among the following variables:
     * Average Family Size: The number of members of families divided by
       the total number of families, where a family is a group of two or
       Formula: [# of all people in families]/[# of families]
     * Families with Children: The percentage of families that have
       18])/[total # of families])*100
     * Single-parent Families: Of families with children, the percentage
       women with own children under 18])/[total number of families with
   Family: Gender, Love, and Property. Fifth Edition. Belmont, CA:
   Demographic Structure of American Families. In Raymond T. Coward and
   William M. Smith Jr. (eds.), The Family in Rural Society. Boulder, CO:
