   TheMotherCompany » What is the “Traditional American Family?” Comments
What is the “Traditional American Family?”
   What is the “traditional family?”  Working father, stay-at-home mom,
   and two kids? In this day and age, so few families fit that
   families really look like, and how it’s affecting our kids.  At what
   point will the vision of what makes the “Traditional American Family”
   and Public Education for the Council on Contemporary Families. We want
   What is the most current percentage of American families that fit into
   families with children younger than age 15 have a stay-at-home mother
   “non-traditional” families?
   families where every adult in the household is employed.
   What are the myths about the “Traditional American Family’?
   One myth is that male breadwinner families were “the” traditional
   family. Much more traditional has been the custom of having a family
   grew up in a family where the mother was not working on the farm or in
   the workforce. That family form receded in the Depression and World War
   come back as the majority family form.
   families.
   home. Most women would like more balance in their work and family
   report higher levels of work-family conflict than do women.
   families?
   How a family functions is more important than how it looks from the
   dynamics of their family life. That said, children do better, whatever
   work-family benefits. And the U.S. lags behind every other rich country
   Is there any indication that the “traditional family” form is more or
   less stable than the “non-traditional” family?
   specific form. The most stable families are those with college-educated
   Why is the image of the traditional family (working dad, SAHM, and kids
   The breadwinner family of the 1950s was in fact a very new — and
   and social policies around that assumption, and idealized that family
   realities of family life today, they ask the rest of us to adjust to
   their simplistic fantasies about family life.
   Stephanie Coontz teaches history and family studies at The Evergreen
   Public Education for the Council on Contemporary Families, which she
   We Never Were: American Families and the Nostalgia Trap (1992 and 2000,
   Posted in: Expert Advice, Family, Gay Parenting, Learn
LGBT Family Resources, from “Lesbian Dad”
Audio: Stay-at-Home-Dads Rap about their Family Role
          + Family (69)
