Embracing A More Realistic And Inclusive Definition Of Family
   Wendy Chun-Hoon D.C. Director of Family Values @ Work
   Jared Make Senior Staff Attorney, A Better Balance: The Work and Family
   [n-EXTENDED-FAMILY-628x314.jpg]
   Who makes up a family?
   For most Americans today, family includes a range of loved ones--from
   siblings and close friends. However, the most prevalent family
   relationships. All too often, policymakers define family narrowly,
   U.S. depart from the "nuclear family" model of a married husband and
   wife and their children. Many family trends contribute to this fact.
   family. Americans are also waiting longer to marry and are living with
   big step forward in recognizing that families come in all shapes and
   care for personal or family health and safety needs. Workers in Chicago
   sick days laws both cover a broad set of family relationships,
   sick days movement by including "chosen family"-- an individual with
   equivalent to family, even absent a blood or legal relationship.
   close friends or extended family members (family members other than a
   recognize these extended and chosen family members. The L.A. paid sick
   family and caregiving relationships in the city.
   family. The government's broad family definition has existed in
   Representatives to expand the FMLA's limited family definition to
   include new relationships, including chosen family.
   Other places are modernizing their family definition as well.
   raising awareness about the need to expand family recognition. From
   justice advocates are pushing lawmakers to adopt broad family
   definitions that include chosen family. Cities as diverse as L.A.,
   Minneapolis and Chicago have recognized that families today are
   Wendy Chun-Hoon is the D.C. Director of Family Values @ Work. Jared
   authors created an LGBTQ/Work-Family Project that is working across
   and expand family definitions in law and policy.
   Family Lgbt Americans Family And Medical Leave Act
   Embracing A More Realistic And Inclusive Definition Of Family
