The Conservative Definition of 'Family Values' Is B.S.
   Two advocates launch an initiative to push back against nuclear family
   The term “family values,” particularly when used in election years, is
   rarely about what really matters to children and families. Instead the
   American homes—despite the fact that the “Leave it to Beaver” family
   accurate representation of how families across the country look.
   In a recent piece for Salon, family advocates Mia Birdsong and Nicole
   children were living in this type of...family unit. Today, it’s just 22
   families they encountered, the two decided to launch a new initiative
   called Family Story to change the way we talk about what family
   family” the Family Story website states. The organization is focused on
   countering the idea that there is a single “right” kind of family.
   Conservatives constantly bemoan changes in the American family
   families with working mothers, single parents, LGBT parents, and
   non-parental caregivers. But these types of families defy conservative
   stereotypes and outdated stigmas. Family Story, which allows real
   families to tell their own stories via powerful videos and other media,
   “I hate that ‘family values’ has become a meaningless term often tossed
   around by social conservatives, while all around us there are families
   Family Story’s mission is ambitious yet necessary. The project “will
   innovative and compelling ideas, practices, and solutions that families
   violence, and poor school performance from family structure, and
   contest the myth that the nuclear family is the solution to these
   incisive look at issues around family, gender, culture and “life off
   script.” Before founding and becoming co-director of Family Story, she
   spent years researching data proving that traditional families are not
   been viewed more than 700,000 times. Prio to becoming Family Story
   co-director, she served as vice president of the Family Independence
   “Family Story is not, and will never be, about bashing nuclear
   families,” Nicole Rodgers says. “Two married parents raising children
   wider range of family arrangements.”
   views on what makes a ‘good’ family,” adds Birdsong. “But too few
   counter-narrative. There are incredible, beautiful families who have
   figured out how to make it work outside the nuclear family model. It’s
