    #Family from LoveToKnow
        11. Family
    1. Family
    2. About Family Values
    3. Definition of Family
Definition of Family
   Family Family can be defined in many different ways.
   Family may seem like a simple concept, but there is no simple
   definition of family. In its most basic terms, a family is a group of
   family means much more, and even the simple idea of genetic bonds can
Basic Family Definition
   or a blood bond is a family.
     * Legal Bonds: Families are legally bound through marriages,
       expanded, or dissolved to change the composition of a family.
       ancestor are part of a family. This includes both close and distant
       nieces, nephews, and cousins. Researching a family tree or
       genealogical records can reveal familial blood bonds.
   Despite the apparent simplicity of this definition of family, the idea
   of family goes far beyond just legal or blood relationships for many
Types of Families
   There are many different types of families, each of which is equally
     * Nuclear Family: Also called a conjugal family, this is the parents
     * Extended Family: This type of family includes all relatives in
       In a family household that is extended, these relatives typically
       family is also called a joint family or multigenerational family
     * Complex Family: This type of extended family has three or more
       adults plus their children. This type of family may be formed
       families may be complex even without formal legal bonds between the
     * Step Family: This is a family where the adults have divorced and
       new nuclear family. The children may come from several different
     * Traditional Family: This is a family unit defined in the classic
       duties and child-rearing. This strict definition of family is less
     * Adopted Family: This type of family shares legal bonds but not
       parent. Adopted families can also be defined in an emotional or
     * Foster Family: A foster family includes one or more adult parent
   Many families can be classified as more than one specific type, and
   every family has its unique characteristics that make it special and
Defining Your Family
   can help you create your definition of family, there is more to family
   relationships than these basic concepts. A true family provides its
   provide them with emotional and spiritual connection as family, even if
   they share no legal or genetic bonds. For example, a church "family"
   are not formally related. Similarly, a work family has common
   formal bonds. College fraternities and sororities often share familial
   people are even creating online or virtual families of individuals who
   The definition of family is constantly evolving, and every person can
   define family in a different way to encompass the relationships she
   shares with people in her life. Over time one's family will change as
   one's life changes and the importance of family values and rituals
   deepen. Every member who is truly family will help make it richer.
     * Meaning of Family
     * Definition of a Blended Family
     * Definition of Extended Families
     * Definition of a Nuclear Family
   Family Night Ideas
   Fun Family Outdoor Activities
   Trending in Family
    1. Definition of Extended Families
    2. Chinese Family Values
    3. Definition of a Blended Family
   Family Categories
    1. About Family Values
    4. Family Activities
    5. Military Families
    2. Family Night Ideas
    3. Photos of Summer Family Fun
    4. Fun Family Outdoor Activities
    5. Frugal Fun for the Family
   Definition of Family
