    #Family from LoveToKnow
        11. Family
    1. Family
    2. About Family Values
    3. Meaning of Family
Meaning of Family
   family
   'Family' is a single word, with many different meanings. People have
   many ways of defining a family and what being a part of a family means
   to them. Families differ in terms of economic, cultural, social, and
   many other facets, but what every family has in common is that the
   people who call it a family are making clear that those people are
   important in some way to the person calling them his family.
Definition of Family
   The dictionary defines family in several ways. One definition is "a
   point, there are several modern family structures that are excluded by
   family unit. Another definition is "Two or more people who share goals
   majority of modern family units; for the purposes of this article, the
Who Makes a Family?
   The traditional family consists of a father, mother and children. This
   is the family shown on television as the standard family. However, the
   21st century showcases a variety of family units, some very different
   families opt to have no children, or cannot have children due to some
   family is a basic definition; however, in order to accurately
   acknowledge other family structures, a broader definition is necessary.
   In addition to a more universal family definition, there are also
   plenty of people who consider a group of friends to be family, and
   adults who consider pets as defining members of the family unit.
Friends as Family
   extended (or immediate) family. People who have lost close family
   members may create a family unit of friends with similar interests and
   goals to become replacements or enhancements to a lacking family
   structure. This type of family unit, while untraditional, can be just
   important than the family a person was born with. In addition, some
   people who have supportive families also have an extensive network of
   friends who they consider to be a second family or as additions to
Pets as Family
   Pets can also become members of a family unit. Pets add an element of
   responsibility to a family, particularly for children. For couples who
   for as additional family members by many people and are mourned as such
Redefining Family
   Rather than simply defining family by a dictionary definition, each
   individual should look to define a family by his own standards,
   enriching the dictionary's definition. You can have several families in
   your lifetime, even several families at once if you choose. Regardless
   of how you choose to define your family unit, whether it is traditional
   or unique, your definition is of the family unit that works for you. As
   the saying goes, "Family is what you make it." Whether made of blood
   relatives, friends, or pets, or a combination of these, your family can
     * Definition of Family
     * Definition of a Nuclear Family
     * Definition of a Blended Family
     * Types of Family Structures
   Family Night Ideas
   Fun Family Outdoor Activities
   Trending in Family
    1. Definition of Extended Families
    2. Chinese Family Values
    3. Definition of a Blended Family
   Family Categories
    1. About Family Values
    4. Family Activities
    5. Military Families
    2. Family Night Ideas
    3. Photos of Summer Family Fun
    4. Fun Family Outdoor Activities
    5. Frugal Fun for the Family
   Meaning of Family
