<T=1-1.txt>
Family
   father. For the family in biology, see Family (biology). For other
   uses, see Family (disambiguation).
   Two parents and a child: the statue Family in the garden of the Palace
      Family
      Family
   In the context of human society, a family (from Latin: familia) is a
   families etc..), or co-residence (as implied by the etymology of the
   English word "family") or some combination of these. Members of the
   immediate family include spouses, parents, brothers, sisters, sons,
   and/or daughters. Members of the extended family may include
   immediate family, depending on an individual's specific relationship
   In most societies, the family is the principal institution for the
   anthropologists generally classify most family organization as
   and children, also called the nuclear family); avuncular (for example,
   family). Sexual relations among the members are regulated by rules
   The word "family" can be used metaphorically to create more inclusive
   The field of genealogy aims to trace family lineages through history.
   Family is also an important economic unit studied in family economics.
       Types of family
           Conjugal (nuclear or single) family
           Matrifocal family
           Extended family
           Family of choice
      Blended family
      Monogamous family
      Polygamous family
           The nuclear family in industrial society
           The postmodern family
           Oedipal family model and fascism
           Family violence
      The concept of family honor
      Work-family balance
           Family medicine
      Protection of private and family life
      The family and social justice
   Sauk family photographed by Frank Rinehart in 1899
   One of the primary functions of the family involves providing a
   sentimental ties. Thus, one's experience of one's family shifts
   over time. From the perspective of children, the family is a "family of
   orientation": the family serves to locate children socially and plays a
   of view of the parent(s), the family is a "family of procreation," the
   However, producing children is not the only function of the family; in
   Christopher Harris notes that the western conception of family is
   this confusion is not accidental, but indicative of the familial
   that insists members of a nuclear family should live together, and that
   and legal pressures, a large percentage of families do not conform to
   the ideal nuclear family type.
Types of family
   reveal the human family as a social institution and not as a biological
   different types of families occur in a wide variety of settings, and
   cultural anthropologists and sociologists considered family and kinship
   societies instead understand family through ideas of living together,
   family forms in stratified (especially capitalist) societies.^[citation
   family that form over time. Levitan claims:
     importance of communication and equality in families, in order to
Conjugal (nuclear or single) family
   The term "nuclear family" is commonly used, especially in the United
   States of America, to refer to conjugal families. A "conjugal" family
   of age. Sociologists distinguish between conjugal families
   families in general) and nuclear families (which maintain relatively
   close ties with their kindred). Other family
   family.
Matrifocal family
   Main article: Matrifocal family
   A "matrifocal" family consists of a mother and her children. Generally,
   children is a practice in nearly every society. This kind of family
   definition, "a family or domestic group is matrifocal when it is
Extended family
   Settled Sami (Lapplander) family of farmers in Stensele, Västerbotten,
   A family from Basankusu, Democratic Republic of the Congo.
   The term "extended family" is also common, especially in the United
    1. First, it serves as a synonym of "consanguinal family" (consanguine
    2. Second, in societies dominated by the conjugal family, it refers to
       the domestic group) who do not belong to the conjugal family.
   composition and conception of families.
Family of choice
   The term "family of choice," also sometimes referred to as "chosen
   family," is common within the queer community, both in academic
   family as a support system. The term differentiates between the "family
   of origin" (the biological family or that in which people are raised)
   and those that actively assume that ideal role. The family of
   choice may or may not include some or all of the members of the family
   individuals, upon coming out, face rejection or shame from the families
   they were raised in. The term family of choice is also used by
   individuals in the 12 step communities, who create close knit "family"
Blended family
   The term blended family or stepfamily describes families with mixed
   family into the new family. Also in sociology, particularly in the
   works of social psychologist Michael Lamb, traditional family
   refers to "a middleclass family with a bread-winning father and a
   In terms of communication patterns in families, there are a certain set
   of beliefs within the family that reflect how its members should
   communicate and interact. These family communication patterns arise
   two, conformity orientation (the degree to which families should
Monogamous family
   A monogamous family is based on legal or social monogamy. In this case,
Polygamous family
   family for a considerable period of time.
   Family in India, 1870s
   Family in a wagon, Lee County, Mississippi, August 1935.
   Family tree showing the relationship of each person to the blue person.
   Swedish family eating, 1902
   In his book Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family,
   Group photograph of a Norwegian family by Gustav Borgen ca. 1900:
   Extended family with roots in Cape Town, Kimberley and Pretoria, South
   conjugal (or nuclear) families, where nuclear families have a degree of
   biological father. In some families, a woman may have children with
   family as to children born into the family. In the United States, one
   with at least two different men. Such families are more common among
   Typically, societies with conjugal families also favor neolocal
   family of their childhood (family of orientation) and forms a new
   nuclear family (family of procreation). However, in western society the
   single parent family has been growing more accepted and has begun to
   make an impact on culture. Single parent families are more commonly
   single mother families than single father. These families sometimes
   home. Members of the nuclear families of members of one's own (former)
   nuclear family may class as lineal or as collateral. Kin who regard
   within the nuclear family:
   terms that do not build on the terms used within the nuclear family:
   relatives have never had membership of the nuclear family of the
   members of one's own nuclear family.
   form of kinship system in which an individual's family membership
   family membership derives from and is traced through his or her
   family membership derives from and is traced through both the paternal
   property or wealth. It is a family arrangement where descent and
   inheritance are passed equally through both parents.^[34] Families who
   individuals to rely on two sets of families dispersed over a wide
   Main article: History of the family
   Early scholars of family history applied Darwin's biological theory of
   evolution in their theory of evolution of family systems.^[37] American
   "inspiration for Friedrich Engels' book" The Origin of the Family,
   Karl Marx, was used to explain the cause and effect of change in family
The nuclear family in industrial society
   Family arrangements in the United States have become more diverse with
   Contemporary society generally views the family as a haven from the
   image of the "family as haven [...] a place of intimacy, love and trust
   modern society". During industrialization, "[t]he family as a
   (embodied by the father). The family's task was to protect against the
   image of the family has waned in recent years as the ideals of family
   fulfillment have taken shape. Today, the family is more compensatory
   "The popular wisdom", according to Zinn and Eitzen, sees the family
   structures of the past as superior to those today, and families as more
   this, saying, "there is no golden age of the family gleaming at us in
The postmodern family
   Others argue that whether or not one views the family as "declining"
   depends on one's definition of "family". "Married couples have dropped
   traditional forms of the family system. Only a fifth of households were
   following traditional ways of having married couples raising a family
   expected to contribute to family income. Instead, people choose mates
   toward favoring emotional fulfilment and relationships within a family,
   and this shift necessarily weakens the institution of the family.^[49]
   Margaret Mead considers the family as a main safeguard to continuing
   that the most successful large-scale abrogations of the family have
   their family laws in order to accommodate diverse family models. For
   instance, in the United Kingdom, in Scotland, the Family Law (Scotland)
Oedipal family model and fascism
   The model, common in the western societies, of the family triangle,
   oedipal model of the family, and it is a form of patriarchal family.
   a family, they argue, the young develop in a perverse relationship,
   children. Such philosophers claim that the family therefore
   a family, "track down all varieties of fascism, from the enormous ones
   patriarchal-family conceived in the West tradition serves the purpose
     the [conjugal] family organization, precisely to the extent that it
   Domestic violence (DV) is violence that happens within the family. The
          psychological or economic violence that occur within the family
          family, including battering, sexual abuse of female children in
Family violence
   Family violence is a broader definition, often used to include child
   abuse, elder abuse, and other violent acts between family members.
   Children and Families (DCF) define child maltreatment as any act or
   such as a spouse, partner or family member, a friend or neighbor, or
   elder abuse are recognized as types of domestic violence or family
   Child marriages are often arranged between the families of the future
The concept of family honor
   Main article: Family honor
   Family honor is an abstract concept involving the perceived quality of
   individually. The family is viewed as the main source of
   and the family.^[90] The conduct of family members reflects upon family
   honor and the way the family perceives itself, and is perceived by
   others. In cultures of honor maintaining the family honor is often
   are deemed to tarnish the honor of the family results in honor
   killings. An honor killing is the homicide of a member of a family or
   victim has brought shame or dishonor upon the family or community,
   A family is often part of a sharing economy with common ownership.
   family gives to her husband when the wife and husband marry.
   groom or his family to the parents of a woman upon the marriage of
   In some cultures, the mother's preference of family size influences
   on issues regarding the number of children born, family planning,
   children, the right to voluntarily marry and establish a family, and
   others". Family planning refers to the factors that may be
   involved in controlling the size of families, often using coercive
   conversely, discriminatory policies against large families or even
   interested in issues affecting parents and children related to family
   rights, breastfeeding, and rights in family law. The fathers' rights
   related to family law, including child custody and child support, that
   Legal reforms to family laws have taken place in many countries during
   marriage in many countries, reversing older family laws based on the
   period of 1975-1979 saw a major overhaul of family laws in countries
Work-family balance
   Further information: Work–life balance and Work–family balance in the
   Work-family balance is a concept involving proper prioritizing between
   work/career and family life. It includes issues relating to the way how
   work and families intersect and influence each other. At a political
Family medicine
   Main article: Family medicine
   Family medicine is a medical specialty devoted to comprehensive health
   the context of the family and the community, emphasizing disease
   prevention and health promotion. The importance of family
   The Family sculpture, by Robert Thomas, in Cardiff
   Family policies differ significantly between countries. Depending on
   jurisdiction, family policy may have a multiplicity of functions:
   Seeleib-Kaiser 2015). From a societal perspective, family
   child poverty. From an economic perspective, employment-oriented family
   family policies are said to lead to higher employment rates for women,
   family policies should aim at equalising opportunities between men and
   women through de-familialising care, encouraging men's involvement in
   family policy expansion has not always fundamentally challenged gender
   expanding family policies (Ferragina and Seeleib-Kaiser 2015). In
   fact, in many of these countries there has been an expansion of family
   policies, leading to a socialisation of family care responsibilities,
   family policy might be characterised as a "silent revolution", relevant
   had previously emphasised more conservative approaches to family
   family. Nevertheless, a certain number of countries still fail to
   for family policy change during the 1980s and 1990s in many countries.
   democracies increasingly want policies supporting "modern" family
   policy preferences, the traditional differences in family policy
   The expansion of family policies geared to supporting women's
   While in many parts of the world family policies seek to promote a
   gender-equal organization of the family life, in others the
   male-dominated family continues to be the official policy of the
   wife; the position of the head of the family is the exclusive right of
   family, such as that based on traditional family values. The term
   'family values' is often used in political discourse in some countries,
   pertain to the family's structure, function, roles, beliefs, attitudes,
   and ideals, usually involving the "traditional family" - a middle-class
   family with a breadwinner father and a homemaker mother, raising their
   biological children. Any deviation from this family model is considered
   a "nontraditional family". These family ideals are often advanced
Protection of private and family life
   to respect for one's "private and family life, his home and his
   “ Article 8 – Right to respect for private and family life
     1. Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life,
   Certain social scientists have advocated the abolition of the family.
   An early opponent of the family was Socrates whose position was
   citizens have no family ties.
   The family being such a deep-rooted and much-venerated institution, few
   intellectuals have ventured to speak against it. Familialism has been
   atypically defined as a “social structure where … a family's values are
   family.” Favoritism granted to relatives regardless of merit is
   latter. “The worship of the family is merely racism, like a
   Crowley censured the institution of family in his works: “Horrid word,
   family! Its very etymology accuses it of servility and stagnation. /
   family has been strong, it has always been an engine of tyranny. Weak
   must fulfill: he must once and for all and for ever put his family
   The American journalist Marty Nemko considers family to be overrated.
   “Politicians, clerics, and just plain folks extol family as our most
   important institution. / I believe family is overrated. So many people
   suffer inordinately from family. … / Millions of people don't even
   speak with a family member. Millions more spend years and fortunes on
   therapists, trying to undo the ills that family perpetrated on them. /
   are placed in our family of origin at random, with no say in the
The family and social justice
   One of the controversies regarding the family is the application of the
   concept of social justice to the private sphere of family relations, in
   focused on the public political arena, not on the family structures;
   with the family often being seen as a separate entity which needed to
   for greater rights for women within marriage and family. Second
   family and family values, as they were understood then. Feminists
   who have been abused within the family, is in violation of women's
   human rights, and is the result of an ideology which places family
      Familialism
      Family economics
      Stepfamily
<T=1-10.txt>
Bill Shorten Wants To Do Away With Our '50s Definition Of Family
   has shaped his views on family while appearing on the ABC's Kitchen
   changing the views of Australians when it comes to what makes a family.
   "This 1950s definition of what constitutes a family, I don't think that
   blended families," he told Crabb.
   "I don't think it captures single-parent families. You know that old
   MORE: Bill Shorten Family Kitchencabinet Parenting Politics
<T=1-11.txt>
    alternate alternate alternate The Changing American Family
The Opinion Pages|The Changing American Family
The Changing American Family
   nuclear family, which entered the language in 1949 at the beginning of
   of speech. The phrase ''nuclear family,'' meaning a married man and
   the majority of the peoples on earth,'' he wrote, ''nuclear families
   he also noted that in our own society, the nuclear family was ''the
   type of family recognized to the exclusion of all others.''
   reasons why the Census Bureau's new data on family structures in
   tended to think of the state of the nuclear family as a leading moral
   households in this country are made up of nuclear families -- 23.5
   greater than the number of nuclear families. Meanwhile, the number of
   from a fundamental norm, as conservative groups like the Family
   Research Council do. But the dominance of the nuclear family in the
   complexity of American family arrangements.
   The ideological emphasis on the nuclear family in recent decades has
   caused us to forget that the nuclear family itself, especially in its
   suburban, Ozzie and Harriet form, is a reduction of what family has
   nuclear family has been notable, to borrow George Murdock's words, for
   not combining into larger aggregates, like extended families, but for
   You only have to have grown up in a nuclear family to understand the
   good it can do. But even children who grew up in nuclear families have
   non-nuclear families of their own. What the new census data underscore
   is an increasing awareness that the nuclear family is not the only kind
   of family or even the only healthy kind of family. In modern America no
   type of family can really be recognized to the exclusion of all others.
<T=1-12.txt>
   the evolution of the American family toward less traditional forms.
   What is more, just a fifth of households were traditional families —
   and from 43 percent in 1950, as the iconic image of the American family
   in the 1950s, when the institution defined gender roles, family life
   co-author of “Red Families v. Blue Families.”
   instability, complex family relations and poverty,” he said.
   largest rise was in households whose occupants were not a family — up
<T=1-13.txt>
   Modern British Families
   traditional picture of a happy family living in Britain. But is it true
   in the lives and structures of families in Britain, and the traditional
   families need both parents to work in order to survive. This has caused
   So while the traditional model of a family may no longer be true in
   modern Britain, the modern family continues to raise happy, successful
   a breadwinner is the person who earns the most money in their family
              Family matters
              Family finance
              The UK family in statistics
              How to survive family parties
<T=1-14.txt>
   The UK family: In statistics
   Families are changing shape and facing up to new lifestyle challenges.
   The facts and figures below give an idea of what the typical UK family
   WHAT IS A 'TYPICAL' FAMILY?
   There were 17.1 million families in the UK in 2006 - up from 16.5
   proportion of cohabiting couple families had increased to 14%, from 9%
   Although two children remains the most common family size, the average
   number of children per family in the UK has dropped - from 2.0 in 1971
   Graphic showing average family statistics
   WHERE FAMILIES LIVE
   London, whereas married couples and families tend to be concentrated in
   In most families with dependent children, the father is still the main
   The average family income is £32,779 before tax.
   FUTURE FAMILY
   Family policy could be a key battleground at the next UK election
   Smaller families are the future
   How much is family life changing?
   Families' future 'looks brighter'
   Togetherness: Bedouin family ties
   China's families far from home
   Quiz: test yourself on the family
   The UK family: In statistics
   Sheifa Abdel Salam, Egyptian family photo journal Egyptian village
   Family life for a working mother in north-east Egypt
   Abdul Karim Conteh and two children Freetown family
   Family life for a Sierra Leonean footballer, his wife and four children
   A look inside an Indian farming family in the state of Haryana
   Indonesia family Indonesia family
   A glimpse of family life in the Indonesian capital, Jakarta
   watch Changing UK families
   watch Chinese families
   watch Bedouin family
   How important is family today?
<T=1-15.txt>
   U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family Comments Feed alternate
Fewer than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family
   Less than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family
   Less than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family Rapid
   changes in American family structure have altered the image of who’s
   marrying young, then starting a family, and staying married till “death
   do they part,” the family has become more complex, and less
   One of the largest shifts in family structure is this: 34% of children
       and family demographics at Pew Research Center.
       The family can be complicated, especially in these times. There are
       Although there are many different kinds of families, and many can
       find success through love and nurture, I feel that a family headed
       get out, quit, and that seems to be a rising trend in the family as
       well. When a family is broken there is lost opportunity for mutual
       sisters. Being in a family really needs to be about putting the
       have the perspective that their family can last longer than just
       potential in the family. Some of our greatest difficulties can come
       through family issues, but at the same time, the greatest happiness
       we can and will ever experience will be through our families.
                      Children in intact families do better on every
       and aren’t ready to handle family or marriage as well… and when
       thankless suffering from their husbands family,a nd from the
       My family is in the “two married parents, one or both remarried”
       any effect on my children, so I’m bewildered that my family is put
       Widespread divorce and family breakdown, single motherhood,
       The traditional family is not an anomaly…it is God’s design for
       don’t let anyone mislead you to think that the traditional family
       today’s society. It is the ONLY right way to have a family, in
            communities? God is dying, and so is the “traditional” family.
                      families.
                      “traditional” family is only a few centuries old and
            what the hell how could you say that any family is the right
       meaningful change in the proportion of families with at least one
       remarried parent or the proportion of no-parent families since
       Nobody in my family reflects the fears of some of these
       society-wreckers. And everybody in my family loves *family* just as
       each other or stop valuing family. Life happens. It’s messy. It
       doesn’t really matter what shape a family is. I guess mine is at
       the family over. Shortly after they reunited here, he died. My
       who came from a “Beaver Cleaver” family, but…even his dad had been
       What we thought of as normal…the traditional family life style for
       Unless we can restore the concept of a nuclear family as the norm,
            the so-called “traditional” family has waned as government has
                 Get real!! Families are changing – not for the
            broken families have on children. I do NOT disagree with
       I would bet fewer children grew up in “traditional families” in the
       Can we change the terminology from “traditional” family to
       “post-war” family or “boomer” family? “Traditional” sounds like the
       family structure has been the same for eons and eons that only
            Yes in fact the ‘Leave it to Beaver’ style family of the 1950s
            shorthand way of describing this 1950s-era family structure, I
                 family.” Especially, given the fact that 40-50% of those
                 “Father Knows Best” family marriages end in divorce.
       The ‘traditional’ family is hardly traditional at all. As an avid
       family history hunter, I have discovered (within my own family at
       least) families which have one set of parents are very few and far
       traditional’ families and those of yesteryear, is that today’s
       families have been ‘broken’ by choice rather than death. I have one
       fellow in my family tree who married three times, resulting in
       marriages? Death in child birth. Today’s ‘non-traditional families’
            really discussing here is the “post-war” family, and not some
            static “traditional” family that magically stayed intact
            families. While there are errors in the Census they tend to be
            Church records also reflect two parent families.
            residents. These records also reflect traditional family
            Other records that also will give you information on family
            What makes a traditional family is more than that; its that
       families…those boys whose fathers were absent from the household
       As the family goes so goes society. Too bad. USA RIP.
       the family. Kids can struggle in school in their drive and
       As the traditional family goes, so goes the morality of this
            You can’t consider traditional families to be “stable” when
            in divorce. So, there really are no traditional families to
            Many “traditional “families are disrespectful of women,
       much is made about single parent families in the African American
            There are a lot of single-parent household families in poor
            families, especially in the housing projects in those two
                 without denigrating lesbian and gay families. If you lump
                 LGB married families with a second group consisting of
                 single parent families and yet another group consisting
                 of cohabiting, unmarried families, the resulting group is
                 not accurately described as “Single Parent Family.” Since
                 (i.e., breaking out LGB families and folding them into an
       Griff show, and so on like family base shows. I would love to see
            Darnell: Not to be a kill joy but as far as “old” TV family
<T=1-16.txt>
 The American family today
   For children, growing diversity in family living arrangements Family
   And families are smaller now, both due to the growth of single-parent
   or living with a non-marital partner. At the same time that family
   in their families.
   As a result of these changes, there is no longer one dominant family
   family forms. By contrast, in 1960, the height of the post-World War II
   baby boom, there was one dominant family form. At that time 73% of all
   children were living in a family with two married parents in their
   family, and today less than half (46%) are. The declining share of
   children living in what is often deemed a “traditional” family has been
   Not only has the diversity in family living arrangements increased
   since the early 1960s, but so has the fluidity of the family.
   remarriage and (non-marital) recoupling in the U.S., make for family
   experienced a major change in their family or household structure, in
The growing complexity and diversity of families
   century: 69% are in this type of family arrangement today, compared
   parents are more likely to be experiencing a variety of family
The rise of single-parent families, and changes in two-parent families
   In the remainder of two-parent families, the parents are cohabiting but
   The decline in children living in two-parent families has been offset
Blended families
   One-in-six kids is living in a blended family According to the most
   “blended families” – a household with a stepparent, stepsibling or
   lived in blended family households. All told, about 8% are living with
   Many, but not all, remarriages involve blended families. According
   (63%) women in remarriages are in blended families, and about half of
   blended family. About 17% of Hispanic and black kids are living with a
   blended families. This low share is consistent with the finding that
The shrinking American family
   in smaller families. In the mid-1970s, a 40% plurality of mothers who
   family size.
   Among Hispanics and the less educated, bigger families Family size
   the National Survey of Family Growth. In fact, over the past 20 years,
   changes in family structure that have occurred over the past several
   decades, family life has been greatly affected by the movement of more
   families, mean that more than ever, mothers are playing the role of
   breadwinner—often the primary breadwinner—within their families.
   In four-in-ten families, mom is the primary breadwinner Today, 40% of
   families with children under 18 at home include mothers who earn the
   majority of the family income. This share is up from 11% in 1960 and
   earn more than their husbands. While families with married breadwinner
   moms tend to have higher median incomes than married-parent families
   where the father earns more ($88,000 vs. $84,500), families headed by
   families. In 2014, the median annual income for unmarried mother
   families was just $24,000.
   Breadwinner moms are particularly common in black families, spurred by
   spouses. Asian families are less likely to have a woman as the main
   breadwinner in their families, presumably due to their extremely low
   families. In roughly three-in-ten of stay-at-home-mom families, either
   working mothers. And the median household income for families with a
   roughly half the median income for families in which both parents work
       families that began as stepfamilies may no longer identify as such,
       many families may be “blended” but may not include parents who are
       formally married; those families are likely not captured in this
    While blended families all involve remarriage, not all remarriages
       produce blended families. Remarriages involving spouses who have no
       families. ↩
    Only families where the mother or father is the household head are
      The American family today
           The growing complexity and diversity of families
      Household and Family Structure
      Family and Relationships
<T=1-17.txt>
The notion of family life
   The United Nations broadly defines a family as "any combination of two
   Committee of 1994 concentrated on a broad definition of the family as
   in order not to exclude anyone from forming part of the term "family".
   The term "family" is found in article 23 of the International Covenant
   family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is
   entitled to protection by society and the state". Family is said to be
   family.
   and women of marriageable age to marry and to form a family shall be
   covenant seems to indicate that a family is formed by a marriageable
   Marriage and family are seen synonymous as well in article 10 of the
   what a family is.
   Can a family be equated to family life or family environment? The
   concepts of family life can be found in the European Convention on
   Human Rights (ECHR) and family environment is found in the Convention
   The CRC in its preamble states that a child should "grow up in a family
   define what constitutes family life and family environment. Yet, case
   notion that family life includes also de facto families. In the
   family life between an unmarried mother and her child is created by the
   constitutes family life.
   fundamental constituent of family life.
   purposes, family life as stated in Johnston and Others vs Ireland
   Family life depends upon the existence of close personal ties.
   one's private and family life) to unmarried parents even if such
   the ambit of family life? In Price vs UK (1982), the ECtHR ruled that
   blood ties only are not enough to build family life between
   Neil Ferguson et al state that the existence of family life needs to be
   order to benefit from article 8's family life the content and the
   (Grandparenting In Divorced Families, Bristol, 2004, 74).
   of Appeal stated that the test to assess the term "family" under the
   unmarried cohabitating persons are deemed to be a "family" under the
   decisive in deciding what amounts to family life such as whether the
   It seems that the notion of family life is taken to embrace not only
<T=1-18.txt>
           Family Dynamics
           Passing Along Birth Defect Zucker Family Passing Along Birth
            Defect Zucker Family How Passing My Genetic Condition to My
      The Changing American Family
The Changing American Family
   man and woman with their children. So what do families look like now?
   think that the traditional All-American family was still intact -- Mom,
   guilt: This is the family you're supposed to have, supposed to want.
   In real life, in big cities and in smaller towns, families are single
   moms, they're stepfamilies, they're boyfriends and girlfriends not
   or two moms, they're a village. In real life, in 2005, families are
   In fact, the very definition of "family" is changing dramatically. The
   The change in the makeup of the American family is the result of two
   primary factors, says Martin O'Connell, chief of fertility and family
   wanted a family and, last June, adopted a baby boy.
   family and friends have stepped in," Hansell says.
   family setups than those involved in the childbirth industry. "I've
   here with one father and then come in with a new father -- the family
   cross section of American families and, while she doesn't ask the
   According to 1999 figures from the Population Resource Center, families
   Under the Family and Medical Leave Act, married partners can take leave
   health benefits, retirement, and so on, married families can "earn" 25
   assertively which type of family comes out ahead tax-wise.
   What is safe to say is that the kids of untraditional families can wind
   many impoverished kids are in untraditional families.
   University's Center for Family and Demographic Research and a
   psychological cost to raising a family without the mental safety net of
The Growth of Gay Families
   puts extra stress on gay and lesbian families, but Hamilton and Sumner
   in love with our family," Hamilton says.
   Some large employers are scrambling to catch up to how families are
Families, Privileges, and the Law
   Few laws protect untraditional families. In fact, at this point federal
   unmarried families can and do face discrimination in these key areas:
   "counts" as a family.
   The answer probably lies in making sure all families -- whether Mom and
   Discrimination against unmarried families is still real. But those
   families also have the love and courage it takes to press for change.
   That is what makes a family."
      Family Circle
<T=1-19.txt>
   Home / About In Context / Caring for Families
                        The Changing American Family
               Dramatic changes in the shape of U.S. families
             One of the articles in Caring For Families 
   As we head into the 21st century, changes within and among families in
   reshaping family life in the late 20th century. The new realities of
   family life are in sharp contrast with idealized notions of the family
   the family are creating profound contradictions in public policy. If
   the family is to be a healthy component in society, as it must be for
   society to survive, we need to understand anew what family is and what
THE CHANGING FAMILY
   The range of variation in "families" throughout history and across
   within all this variation: Families are a set of primary relationships
   – biological, emotional, social, economic, and legal. Families are also
   complicated relationships with each other and with society. Families
   shelter, and intimacy. Families also carry on tradition and culture
   If our discussions of families began from this broad understanding, we
   about families, and much of our policy and literature, assume a much
   more narrow definition of a "normal" family: a caretaking mother,
   senior citizens formed such families and many middle-aged adults grew
   up in them, but the composition and characteristics of families have
   family-based households (see figure below):
       family.
       A majority of families have no children under age 18.
       More than 25% of all families with children are single parent
       families; almost all of these have a female head of the household.
   and out of the labor force depending on family circumstances.)
   majority of younger families, it is no longer practical to think in
   terms of a "family wage" – enough income from one wage earner to
   support a family, the children’s education and the couple’s retirement.
   Virtually every younger family (and many older ones) now assumes that
   family.
   Family income has dropped over the last decade and a half, unless there
   released a report: "Trends in Family Income: 1970-1986." Staff of the
   Families analyzed these findings and concluded that although "family
   income for the typical family rose during this period … income gains
   were not evenly distributed. Low income families with children, young
   families at all income levels and poor single mother families in 1986
   family incomes rose was "the increased number of workers per family,
   not increased earnings by the typical worker. Many families with
   By contrast, among "elderly unrelated individuals and elderly families
   without children, median family income rose 50%." Noting that "earnings
   was often necessary to keep family income from falling…. These altered
   Even if the family wage concept were an actuality, the incidence of
   The physical and emotional work of maintaining families, especially
   economically self-sufficient have less tolerance for unequal familial
   their rights to power and control in family decision-making more
   not enter into, or depart from, what they consider intolerable family
   we still rely on families, as we have in the past, to produce healthy
   support a young family? Where will the time and effort for family life
   come from? Even more so for the 27% of U.S. families with children and
   families below the poverty line were female-headed, illustrating the
   difficulties posed when women alone try to maintain families, assuming
   reject marriage or motherhood, the creation of new families, because of
   work and family change? Will men share the caretaking and household
   need for family policies that take into account the diversity and
   changing nature of American families will need to be increasingly
   the costs borne almost solely by individual parents or families.
   attractive and less expensive to the individual and to families, or
   additional numbers of women and families will limit their child
   between society and the family will need to be devised. The elements of
   extra tax deductions for families with children, and the quality of
   control of the caretaking role in families. Even though women’s work in
   family care, part-time employment, and further education or training.
   changes in family circumstances. Health care support for the young and
   work and family life as satisfying and challenging as have some of the
   participating in family life breeds wisdom and satisfaction. Caretaking
   valued. As family life and children – the future incarnate – become
   families. Let us hope that we can use this common ground on behalf of
   families and children as a basis for new social innovations in the 21st
<T=1-2.txt>
Family structure in the United States
   "American family" redirects here. For other uses, see American Family.
   A Multigenerational Family
   An American family composed of the mother, father, children, and
   extended family.
   The traditional family structure in the United States is considered a
   family support system involving two married individuals providing care
   nuclear family has become less prevalent, and alternative family forms
   have become more common. The family is created at birth and
   extended family of aunts, uncles, grandparents, and cousins, can hold
   significant emotional and economic roles for the nuclear family.
   single-parent families, teenage pregnancy and unwed mothers, and
   to the creation of alternative family forms, generating new versions of
   the American family.
           Nuclear family
           Stepfamilies
           Extended family
           Only child families
      Modern family models
      African-American family structure
   This figure illustrates the changing structure of families in the U.S.
   Only 7% of families in the U.S. in 2002 were "traditional" families in
   the wife and kids to stay home. Many families are now dual-earner
   families. The "other" group includes the many households that are
Nuclear family
   Further information: Nuclear family
   The nuclear family has been considered the "traditional" family since
   the communist scare in the cold war of the 1950s. The nuclear family
   family has become less prevalent, and pre-American and European family
   adopting individuals, and extended family systems living together. The
   nuclear family is also choosing to have fewer children than in the
   biological parent. Historically, single-parent families often resulted
   they may have in the past. Increasingly, single parent families are
Stepfamilies
   Stepfamilies are becoming more familiar in America. Divorce rates are
   two families together making step families. Statistics show that there
   are 1,300 new stepfamilies forming every day. Over half of American
   families are remarried, that is 75% of marriages ending in divorce,
Extended family
   Further information: Extended family
   The extended family consists of grandparents, aunts, uncles, and
   cousins. In some circumstances, the extended family comes to live
   either with or in place of a member of the nuclear family. An example
   family.
   family structure consisted of a grandmother and her children,
   the mother's extended family.
   financially for the family. The age group for parents ranges from
   A breadwinner is the main financial provider in the family.
   nuclear families in which both spouses are employed outside of the
   who are not in the labor force primarily so they can care for family
   See also: family planning
Only child families
Modern family models
   2001. Of all one parent families, 83% are mother–child
   families.
   it harder for foster families and potential adoptive families to adopt
   kids. Before a family can adopt they must go through state, county, and
   families can adopt children via licensed agencies or with by directly
   The traditional "father" and "mother" roles of the nuclear family have
African-American family structure
   Further information: African-American family structure
   The family structure of African-Americans has long been a matter of
   poverty and family structure. It hypothesized that the destruction
   of the black nuclear family structure would hinder further progress
   family, the out-of-wedlock birthrate was 25 percent among blacks.
   American nuclear family. During the era of the baby boomers, families
   became a popular social topic, especially on television. Family
   shows such as Roseanne, All in the Family, Leave It to Beaver, The
   families growing up in America. Those "perfect" nuclear families have
   single-parent and divorced families, as well as older singles.
   Television shows that show single-parent families include Half & Half,
   American family was started in the early 1930s. It was not until WWII
   that families generally had the economical income in which to
      Work–family balance in the United States
      Japanese family structure
<T=1-20.txt>
<T=1-21.txt>
How Family Structure has Changed
   Data about family structure illustrate how individuals in an area are
   organized into different family arrangements.
What is a Family?
   According to the U.S. Census Bureau, a family is "a group of two or
   live in different places fit in this definition of family? What about
   relatively common family arrangements are not officially recognized as
   families. While the Bureau's definition of families is clear and is
   our families fit this definition.
   of family is an inappropriate way to measure and examine families. In
   ancient Greece and in feudal Europe, a family was all of the people who
   adults are also considered part of the family if they play a large role
   helpful, there is no single understanding of what a family is; its
How Have Families Changed over Time, and Why?
   The structures, or forms, of the family vary as much as the definition
   itself. There is no single "true" family form. In Western Europe the
   nuclear family (a single set of biological parents residing together
   time in Eastern Europe multiple generations of the same family lived
   the United States has also seen many types of family forms throughout
   marriage reveals that the family forms we see today in the U.S. are
   actually the result of an evolution of the family that began with an
   A Family at the Beach
   A Family at the Beach
   the structure of the family at that time and into the future (p. 7).
   needs of a particular extended family group (Coontz, 2005).
   the structure of the family. In the 19^th Century an ideal of the
   the majority of families could not achieve this ideal, as few jobs paid
   wages high enough to support a single-earner family. This changed as
   cultural ideal gave rise to family trends in the 1950s and early 1960s
   that had never been seen before. "Ozzie and Harriet" families that
   family form at this time (McLanahan and Casper, 2001). The realization
   of the evolution of the family and marriage shows that the family has
   of the U.S. demonstrate that the structure of families are changing and
   people, the family itself is not disappearing.
Why Do Families Matter?
   The increasing diversity of the family in the U.S. has led scholars to
   examine if and how different family forms are associated with different
   has found that not all racial groups participate in each family type
   equally, thus not all family forms are equally available to all people
   of family (e.g., married with kids, married with no kids, single-parent
   benefits of marriage for families are due to a number of factors like:
   marriages (p. 309-310). While we see increasing diversity in family
   Are there differences in family structures between urban and rural
   Oregon communities in 1990 and 2000? Did the prevalence of some family
Links to additional sources of information about family structure
   National Survey of Families & Households, from University of
   ChildStats.gov, national indicators of child and family wellbeing
   from The Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics:
Family Structure-Related Terms
   family trends across the state among the following variables:
      Average Family Size: The number of members of families divided by
       the total number of families, where a family is a group of two or
       Formula: [of all people in families]/[of families]
      Families with Children: The percentage of families that have
       18])/[total of families])*100
      Single-parent Families: Of families with children, the percentage
       women with own children under 18])/[total number of families with
<T=1-22.txt>
   TheMotherCompany » What is the “Traditional American Family?” Comments
What is the “Traditional American Family?”
   What is the “traditional family?”  Working father, stay-at-home mom,
   and two kids? In this day and age, so few families fit that
   families really look like, and how it’s affecting our kids.  At what
   point will the vision of what makes the “Traditional American Family”
   and Public Education for the Council on Contemporary Families. We want
   What is the most current percentage of American families that fit into
   families with children younger than age 15 have a stay-at-home mother
   “non-traditional” families?
   families where every adult in the household is employed.
   What are the myths about the “Traditional American Family’?
   One myth is that male breadwinner families were “the” traditional
   family. Much more traditional has been the custom of having a family
   grew up in a family where the mother was not working on the farm or in
   the workforce. That family form receded in the Depression and World War
   come back as the majority family form.
   families.
   home. Most women would like more balance in their work and family
   report higher levels of work-family conflict than do women.
   families?
   How a family functions is more important than how it looks from the
   dynamics of their family life. That said, children do better, whatever
   work-family benefits. And the U.S. lags behind every other rich country
   Is there any indication that the “traditional family” form is more or
   less stable than the “non-traditional” family?
   specific form. The most stable families are those with college-educated
   Why is the image of the traditional family (working dad, SAHM, and kids
   The breadwinner family of the 1950s was in fact a very new — and
   and social policies around that assumption, and idealized that family
   realities of family life today, they ask the rest of us to adjust to
   their simplistic fantasies about family life.
   Stephanie Coontz teaches history and family studies at The Evergreen
   Public Education for the Council on Contemporary Families, which she
   We Never Were: American Families and the Nostalgia Trap (1992 and 2000,
   Posted in: Expert Advice, Family, Gay Parenting, Learn
LGBT Family Resources, from “Lesbian Dad”
Audio: Stay-at-Home-Dads Rap about their Family Role
           Family 
<T=1-23.txt>
The end of the ‘typical’ American family
   [children-in-u-s-families.png]
   The "typical" American family of the 1950s is gone, replaced by a
   The "typical" America family of the 1950s -- a working Dad, a
   There is no one kind of typical family anymore, sociologists are
   family forms.
   "There hasn't been the collapse of one dominant family structure and
   Cohen. "It's really a fanning out into all kinds of family structures."
   In a study prepared for the Council on Contemporary Families, Cohen
   American family life during the past 50 years.
      The rising number of blended, remarried and co-habiting families.
   really impossible to point to a 'typical' family."
   family arrangements at some point in their lives, Cohen says.
   Factors driving the changes in the structure of American families today
   affect how families work and live, he points out.
   "Different families have different child-rearing challenges and needs,
   children will be raised by married-couple families, especially ones
   Family, Family Sharing, Marriage, Sociology, America
Study: That home-cooked family dinner might be bad for your mental health
<T=1-24.txt>
   Essay, Report & Composition Writing (RSS 2.0) Family Definition-
Family Definition- please read and give opinions! thanks!!
   Defining Family
   When most people think of the word family mother, father, children, and
   While all this can be true of a family, it is not the only way or the
   correct way that family can be defined. Family is more accurately
   marriage but who sincerely care and love each other. Family is there
   Families are the building blocks of any society and have been this way
   family. In our religion we are part of a “family” of believers. At Penn
   State we are part of one big “family” of students and faculty. Our
   “family”. While these examples might be accepted by society today, it
   only describes family in broad terms. Family is much deeper than all of
   One very common misconception about family is that its members have to
   be related by blood, marriage, or adoption. In truth, family is anyone
   Johann Schiller described family perfectly when he said; “It is not
   believe that my family is not only my parents who raised me, my little
   of my family as my aunt. Family goes hand-in-hand with friendship. In
   order to have a family you need friendship. My family and I do not get
   along just because we are forced to live together. My family is my best
   In today’s society most people consider family to be just blood
   for the most. Family is a completely necessary part of anyone’s life.
   Your family helps you through the tough times and provides the needed
   support to get through life. Family cares about what happens to you,
   Defining Family
   When most people think of the word family, mother, father,
   While all this can be true of a family, it is not the only way (do we
   need the word?) or the correct way that family can be defined. Family
   other. Family is there for you every step of the way and provides
   Families are the building blocks of any society and have been this way
   "family". In our religion we are part of a “family” of believers. At
   Penn State we are part of one big “family” of students and faculty. Our
   “family”. While these examples might be accepted by society today, it
   only describes family in broad terms. Family love is much deeper than
   One very common misconception about family is that its members have to
   be related by blood, marriage, or adoption. In truth, family is anyone
   about you. Johann Schiller described family perfectly when he said; “It
   I believe that my family is not only my parents who raised me, my
   my family as my aunt. Family goes hand-in-hand with friendship. In
   order to have a family you need friendship. My family and I do not get
   along just because we are forced to live together. My family is my best
   In today’s society most people consider family to be just blood
   relations but in reality it is (family aren't bonds. They are made up
   of bonds) the bonds you share with those you care for the most. Family
   is a completely necessary part of anyone’s life. Your family helps you
   through life. Family cares about what happens to you, are always there
   > Family is more accurately described as a group of people who might
   Well, if all families were like that, nobody would say "I hate my
   family"! 
   Besides, while Ler5018's point is that a family is not just made up of
   Defining Family
   When most people think of the word family, mother, father, children,
   While all this can be true of a family, it is not the only or the
   correct way that family can be defined. Family is more accurately
   marriage but who sincerely care and love each other. Family is there
   Families are the building blocks of any society and have been this way
   family. In our religion we are part of a “family” of believers. At Penn
   State we are part of one big “family” of students and faculty. Our
   “family”. While these examples might be accepted by society today, it
   only describes family in broad terms. Family love is much deeper than
   One very common misconception about family is that its members have to
   be related by blood, marriage, or adoption. In truth, family is anyone
   Johann Schiller described family perfectly when he said; “It is not
   believe that my family is not only my parents who raised me, my little
   saying that my great-aunt is not considered part of my family but
   Caitlin is just as much a part as my aunt. Family goes hand-in-hand
   with friendship. In order to have a family you need friendship. My
   family and I do not get along just because we are forced to live
   together. My family are my best friends and we get along because we
   Family does not have to live under one roof or under one head as
   entire family. My father does not control my cousins and my uncle does
   heads will not change whether or not you are all family.
   In today’s society most people consider family to be just blood
   relations but in reality family is made of the bonds you share with
   those you care for the most. Family is a completely necessary part of
   anyone’s life. Your family helps you through the tough times and
   provides the needed support to get you through life. Family cares about
   Defining Family
   When most people think of the word family, mother, father, children,
   While all this can be true of a family, it is not the only or the
   correct way that family can be defined. (Your criticism of Webster's
   Family is more accurately described as a group of people who might not
   other. Family is there for you every step of the way and provides
   Families are the building blocks of any society and have been this way
   family. In our religion we are part of a “family” of believers. At Penn
   State we are part of one big “family” of students and faculty. Our
   “family”. While these examples might be accepted by society today, it
   only describes family in broad terms. Family love is much deeper than
   yet) about family is that its members have to be related by blood,
   marriage, or adoption. In truth, family is anyone you love and care
   described family perfectly when he said; “It is not flesh and blood but
   the heart which makes us fathers and sons.” I believe that my family is
   great-aunt is not considered part of my family but Caitlin is just as
   much a part as my aunt. Family goes hand-in-hand with friendship. In
   order to have a family you need friendship. My family and I do not get
   along just because we are forced to live together. My family are my
   Family does not have to live under one roof or under one head as
   the entire family. My father does not control my cousins and my uncle
   different heads will not change whether or not you are all family. (The
   In today’s society most people consider family to be just blood
   relations but in reality family is made of the bonds you share with
   those you care for the most. Family is a completely necessary part of
   anyone’s life. Your family helps you through the tough times and
   provides the needed support to get you through life. Family cares about
   Defining Family
   When most people think of the word family, mother, father, children,
   While all this can be true of a family, it is not the only or the
   correct way that family can be defined. Family is more accurately
   Since the beginning, families have been the building blocks of any
   society. Almost every aspect of our lives involves the term family. In
   our religion we are part of a “family” of believers. At Penn State we
   are part of one big “family” of students and faculty. One person unites
   our country as a “family” whom we all look towards for guidance. While
   family in broad terms. Family love is much deeper than all of that and
   One very common misconception about family, as seen in the Oxford
   blood, marriage, or adoption. In truth, family is anyone you love and
   Johann Schiller described family perfectly when he said; “It is not
   believe that my family is not only my parents, my little brother and my
   not saying that my great-aunt is not considered part of my family but
   Family goes hand-in-hand with friendship. In order to have a family you
   need friendship. My family and I do not get along just because we are
   forced to live together. My family are my best friends and we get along
   Every family is going to have its problems, but in the end no one can
   In today’s society most people consider family to be just blood
   relations but in reality family is made of the bonds you share with
   those you care for the most. Family is a completely necessary component
   of anyone’s life. Your family helps you through the tough times. They
   provide the needed support to get you through life. Family cares about
   I love your definition of family. I think that is very true especially
   If a "family" consists of members who care for each other, deleting
<T=1-25.txt>
      family
   Family
   Tim Lott's Family column
You can’t choose your family – or your children’s friends
   It is often said, and truly, that you can’t choose your family. But the
   have children forming their own extra-familial relationships, you enter
   the blood bonds that somehow keep family together (if you’re lucky).
   A family with an admirable belief system may nevertheless smoke
      Family
           family
      Family
<T=1-26.txt>
Single men will get the right to start a family under new definition of
   the rights of all individuals to have a family, and that includes
      Family
       Death sentence 'a hollow victory' for Charleston families
<T=1-27.txt>
Blended family makes long-distance relationship work
   A long-distance marriage allows one blended family to feel whole, even
   stopped them from blending their families.
   equally, says Nathalie Boutet, a collaborative family lawyer in Toronto
   Toronto. They spend long weekends and vacations together as a family.
   families, so some people wait for the kids to be in university before
   family life.
   family situation work, we view this as a space we’re moving through in
   Brandie Weikle is a parenting expert and the host of The New Family
<T=1-28.txt>
Love is all it takes to be a family
   The word love and the term family should be united in definition.
   Tradition dictates to us that a family consists of a father, mother and
   This we were told was an unaccepted, formed family unit and that meant
   The number of those who constitute a “family” is no longer an issue as
   The word “family” is usually defined as parents and their children,
   however, in our more inclusive world we now recognize family as those
   separately and are committed to each other and therefore a family unit.
   sexual orientation, gender, type of family nucleus, or simply defining
   their love as family.
   the outcome as a positive. Marriage is not the only family unit.
   find love also become a family, perhaps not in the traditional sense,
   equals family and love is all it takes to be a family.
<T=1-29.txt>
           Family
                Family Features
           Family
Single men will get right to start family under radical new 'infertile'
   Single men will get right to start family under radical new 'infertile'
   start-family-under-radical-new-infertile-definition-35148750.html
       Single men will get right to start family under radical new
       ht-to-start-family-under-radical-new-infertile-definition-35148750.
   the rights of all individuals to have a family, and that includes
'I found it very difficult to sleep with the pain, but my family were here' -
   Family and friends greeting in arrivals hall of Dublin Airport terminal
   1. Dublin Airport, Dublin. Picture: Caroline Quinn Family and friends
   friends and family from the Javelin Platoon, Recce Company. Javelin
   and family from the Javelin Platoon, Recce Company.
           Family
           Family
                Family Features
           Family
<T=1-3.txt>
   family (n.) Look up family at Dictionary.com
          early 15c., "servants of a household," from Latin familia
          "family servants, domestics collectively, the servants in a
          familiaris "of one's household, private," familiaricus "of
          household slaves," familiaritas "close friendship."
          Replaced Old English hiwscipe, hiwan "family," cognate with Old
          "wife," also with Lithuanian šeimyna "family," Gothic haims
          family," by 1807. Family values first recorded 1966. Phrase in a
          family way "pregnant" is from 1796. Family circle is 1809;
          family man "man devoted to wife and children, man inclined to
          from family in a slang sense of "the fraternity of thieves").
          Family-tree "graph of ancestral relations" attested from 1752:
     Antiquity, to the Root of his third Family Tree; and indeed, he made
     Happy family an assemblage of animals of diverse habits and
<T=1-30.txt>
   Single men win right to start a family
<T=1-31.txt>
Embracing A More Realistic And Inclusive Definition Of Family
   A Better Balance: The Work and Family
   Who makes up a family?
   For most Americans today, family includes a range of loved ones--from
   siblings and close friends. However, the most prevalent family
   relationships. All too often, policymakers define family narrowly,
   U.S. depart from the "nuclear family" model of a married husband and
   wife and their children. Many family trends contribute to this fact.
   family. Americans are also waiting longer to marry and are living with
   big step forward in recognizing that families come in all shapes and
   care for personal or family health and safety needs. Workers in Chicago
   sick days laws both cover a broad set of family relationships,
   sick days movement by including "chosen family"-- an individual with
   equivalent to family, even absent a blood or legal relationship.
   close friends or extended family members (family members other than a
   recognize these extended and chosen family members. The L.A. paid sick
   family and caregiving relationships in the city.
   family. The government's broad family definition has existed in
   Representatives to expand the FMLA's limited family definition to
   include new relationships, including chosen family.
   Other places are modernizing their family definition as well.
   raising awareness about the need to expand family recognition. From
   justice advocates are pushing lawmakers to adopt broad family
   definitions that include chosen family. Cities as diverse as L.A.,
   Minneapolis and Chicago have recognized that families today are
   Wendy Chun-Hoon is the D.C. Director of Family Values @ Work. Jared
   authors created an LGBTQ/Work-Family Project that is working across
   and expand family definitions in law and policy.
   Family Lgbt Americans Family And Medical Leave Act
   Embracing A More Realistic And Inclusive Definition Of Family
<T=1-32.txt>
Pope to release landmark text on the definition of family
   Pope Francis’ landmark text on the family is expected to encourage a
   more open attitude toward the non-nuclear family but contain no change
   Pope to release landmark text on the definition of family __
   Pope Francis’ landmark text on the family is expected to e
Pope to release landmark text on the definition of family
   VATICAN CITY (RNS) Pope Francis’ landmark text on the family, scheduled
   toward the non-nuclear family but contain no change in church doctrine.
   be the culmination of two synods in which family matters were hotly
   recognize families in different forms without delinking family from
   He said Francis will be “talking about the family as multigenerational,
   not just nuclear. He’s casting the net of family more widely and more
   “It will be a shift in tone on the church’s intervention of family
   migration on families and marriages between faiths, will likely result
   family, while also stating that issues such as violence and sexual
<T=1-33.txt>
      Families
   At Work, Fighting for a Broad Definition of Family
   Broad Definition of Family
   families but also recognize that families do not fit one mold. Covered
   they have such a close relationship that they are equivalent to family
    even absent a blood relationship. In an age when our families take
   many forms, including multigenerational families, extended families,
   single-parent families, LGBTQ families, and “chosen” families, this
   family. Advocates have been fighting throughout the country to pass
   themselves or loved ones. But limits on the definition of family mean
   households in the U.S. do not fit the “nuclear family” model of a
   Our families are made up of more than just biological or legal
   Families most affected by narrow family definitions often work in jobs
   as I would have in Michigan. My biological family members — the
   individuals most typically defined as “family” in paid leave laws and
   policies — are now hundreds of miles away from me. My family in D.C.
   partner, we would rely on this chosen family to help us survive.
   deny services and benefits to families based on their beliefs about
   what families should look like. They are in line with the religious
    they leave LGBTQ families vulnerable to discrimination and could
   individuals and families.
   national organizer with A Better Balance and Family Values, I am
   country to improve the lives of all families — not just the
   support to my chosen family. I am proud to be part of a growing effort
   of family. Coalitions from D.C. to Michigan and beyond are fighting for
   state, and federal levels understand what families really look like.
   many families. The administration’s proposed rule for paid sick days
   our families — whatever form they take — are protected by public
<T=1-34.txt>
   What Is ‘Family’? High School Test Question Redefines Definition,
   What is Family test question News
What Is ‘Family’? High School Test Question Redefines Definition, Counts This
   question asking for the definition of “family.” The student chose what
   overly basic, simply asking for the definition of family. However,
   there was one problem: The actual definition of family was not one of
     because he chose this “incorrect” definition of family.
   definitions. Here are the definitions of family, according to five
   closely tied with dictionary definition of family than the test key
   answer closer to the actual definition of family? Should the test
   Tags: definition of family, what is family, test, Health
<T=1-35.txt>
   High School Test Question Asks for Definition of ‘Family.’
High School Test Question Asks for Definition of ‘Family.’ This Student’s
   The question asked for a definition of “family.” His son chose “a
     because he chose this "incorrect" definition of family.
   this ‘incorrect’ definition of family.”
   One responder noted that the “correct” answer “reduces family to any
   What do you say the definition of “family” is? Let us know in the
<T=1-36.txt>
           Family
Europeans campaign for one million signatures backing natural family
   pro-family groups in seven countries, calling itself “Mum, Dad & Kids,”
   definition of the family and marriage.
   the family is being eroded by social forces at the same time as its
   woman” and “family” to mean only the married couple, “their common
   together to raise her are not in a family, the coalition contends. Nor
   a family unless they “freely express” their will to “found a family.”
   family in one country cannot be forced onto another country. Therefore,
   family moved to another country that did not accept that definition,
FREE pro-life and pro-family news.
       family Europeans campaign for one million signatures backing
       natural family News By Steve Weatherbe
<T=1-37.txt>
   form a family’: Wynne pledges to end limbo for LGBT parents Comments
‘Ontario’s laws…do not reflect our view on who can form a family’: Wynne
   form a family,” Wynne said, adding she’s “committed to fixing this.”
   lesbian couples, families with more than two parents involved and trans
   “Everyday that they dither on this, everyday there are other families
<T=1-38.txt>
Methodists in England encouraged to broaden definition of family
   "families," including those composed of same-sex couples.
   "What does the word 'family' mean in the twenty-first century?" A
   "This is challenging, as what constitutes 'being a family' eludes being
   clearly defined. In contemporary society family is found in a variety
   families taking part in family activities and the support offered to
   families composed of heterosexual parents, parents with special needs
   multi-faith families, and "same sex couples with children."
   "concept of family was closely related to their theological
   constitutes family."
   “This is challenging, as what constitutes 'being a family' eludes being
   clearly defined. In contemporary society family is found in a variety
   families taking part in family activities and the support offered to
   Families Ministries Development Officer in the Methodist Church, said
   the church's understanding of what families need in the modern context
   goes "beyond the concept of the nuclear family to encompass a diversity
   language and respond more effectively to minister and support families
   Adcock said more support is needed for various "unique" families.
   "If we are to be effective family workers we can't just presume all
   families are the same. We must treat each family as unique and provide
<T=1-39.txt>
   Family
Politicians: don't talk about 'family' like it only has one definition
   Stump speeches and commentary still discuss family as something akin to
   Sure, the Cleavers were a family. But families also look like so many
   traditional notion of “family”. It expanded because now two men or two
   women could marry and make a family – but that reiterates the very
   conservative notion that marriage is the linchpin of the family unit.
   family, and I’m ecstatic that whomever wishes to marry will never be
   achieves. And family, as a concept, isn’t fixed to marriage. It is a
   In the US, families are increasingly “more ethnically, racially,
   according to a 2013 New York Times story about the shift. Family
   consider themselves families of one — more generous and civic-minded
   narrative of black father absenteeism, using traditional families as
   devaluing other family compositions. Republicans hoping to succeed him
   also fail to value “unconventional” families.
   of thinking about family (and an untrue one; according to a 2013 report
   the concerns of the new American family, adapting a language that
   tipped toward an inclusive and fluid definition of family in the
   often making even less. This isn’t a women’s issue. It’s a family
   Just like raising the minimum wage is a family issue. Expanding
   childcare is a family issue. Declining marriage rates is a family
   issue. The unequal rates of incarceration is a family issue. Helping
   family issue. In America, every family should feel like they belong.
   Clinton is right. We should recognize that family isn’t defined by
   isn’t an argument against family structure, but a challenge to those
   definition of traditional family structure as man, woman and child. We
      Family
           family
      Family
<T=1-4.txt>
   Family - definition of family by The Free Dictionary
family
    The children of one of these groups: She raised a large family.
    A group of persons related by descent or marriage: My whole family,
   Virginia family.
    A group of like things; a class: the family of brass instruments.
    A group of individuals derived from a common stock: the family of
   order and above a genus. A family usually consists of several genera.
   language, such as the Indo-European language family.
    Of or having to do with a family: family problems.
    Being suitable for a family: family movies.
   in the family way
   [Middle English familie, from Latin familia, household, servants of a
family
    family quarrels; a family unit.
   from a common ancestor. Compare extended family
   divided and which contains one or more genera. Felidae (cat family) and
   Canidae (dog family) are two families of the order Carnivora
   constants in each curve: a family of concentric circles.
    in the family way informal pregnant
   [ from Latin familia a household, servants of the house, from
   family.
    a group of related things: the halogen family of elements.
   subfamily .
    of, pertaining to, or characteristic of a family: a family trait.
    belonging to or used by a family.
    suitable or appropriate for adults and children: a family amusement
    not containing obscene language: a family newspaper.
   in a or the family way, pregnant.
   [1350–1400; Middle English familie < Latin familia]
family
   familia, "household; household servants," which came from another Latin
Family
   a house; the members of a family. See also clan, set.
   Examples: family of curves, 1741; of gladiators; of languages, 1875; of
 Noun  family - a social unit living together family - a social unit
         living together; "he moved his family to Virginia"; "It was a good
         broken home - a family in which the parents have separated or divorced
         conjugal family, nuclear family - a family consisting of parents and
         extended family - a family consisting of the nuclear family and their
         foster family - the family of a fosterling
       family - primary social group family - primary social group; parents
         and children; "he wanted to have a good job before starting a family"
         family unit
       family - a collection of things sharing a common attribute family -
         brass family - (music) the family of brass instruments
         violin family - (music) the family of bowed stringed instruments
         woodwind family - (music) the family of woodwind instruments
         histocompatibility complex - a family of fifty or more genes on the
       family - people descended from a common ancestor family - people
         descended from a common ancestor; "his family has lived in
         kinfolk, kinsfolk, phratry, family line, sept, folk
         people - members of a family line; "his people have been farmers for
         family); "he wrote his homefolk every day"
         house - aristocratic family line; "the House of York"
         dynasty - a sequence of powerful leaders in the same family
         gens, name - family based on male descent; "he had no sons and there
       family - a person having kinship with another or others family - a
         person having kinship with another or others; "he's kin"; "he's family"
       family - (biology) a taxonomic group containing one or more genera;
         "sharks belong to the fish family"
         Bunyaviridae - a large family of arboviruses that affect a wide range
         Filoviridae - a family of threadlike RNA viruses that cause diseases in
         Togaviridae - a family of arboviruses carried by arthropods
         Flaviviridae - a family of arboviruses carried by arthropods
         Arenaviridae - a family of arborviruses carried by arthropods
         Rhabdoviridae - a family of arborviruses carried by arthropods
         Reoviridae - a family of arboviruses carried by arthropods
         bacteria family - a family of bacteria
         protoctist family - any of the families of Protoctista
         Endamoebidae, family Endamoebidae - a large family of endoparasitic
         fish family - any of various families of fish
         chordate family - any family in the phylum Chordata
         bird family - a family of warm-blooded egg-laying vertebrates
         amphibian family - any family of amphibians
         reptile family - a family of reptiles
         arthropod family - any of the arthropods
         mammal family - a family of mammals
         coelenterate family - a family of coelenterates
         ctenophore family - a family of ctenophores
         worm family - a family of worms
         mollusk family - a family of mollusks
         family Panorpidae, Panorpidae - a family of insects of the order
         Bittacidae, family Bittacidae - a family of predacious tropical insects
         echinoderm family - a family of echinoderms
         order - (biology) taxonomic group containing one or more families
         form family - (biology) an artificial taxonomic category for organisms
         subfamily - (biology) a taxonomic category below a family
         tribe - (biology) a taxonomic category between a genus and a subfamily
         moss family - a family of mosses
         liliopsid family, monocot family - family of flowering plants having a
         dicot family, magnoliopsid family - family of flowering plants having
         fungus family - includes lichen families
         plant family - a family of plants
         fern family - families of ferns and fern allies
       family - a loose affiliation of gangsters in charge of organized
         criminal activities family - a loose affiliation of gangsters in charge
         organized in families; believed to have important relations to the
       family - an association of people who share common beliefs or
         activities family - an association of people who share common beliefs
         every member of the company family"; "the church welcomed new members
family
   (informal), offspring, descendants, brood, kin, nuclear family,
   nearest and dearest, kinsfolk, your own flesh and blood His family are
   have a family?
   stirps Her family came to Los Angeles at the turn of the century.
   classification, subdivision, subclass foods in the cabbage family, such
   adjective familial
   "You don't choose your family. They are God's gift to you, as you are
   "The family - that dear octopus from whose tentacles we never quite
   "All happy families are alike, but every unhappy one is unhappy in its
<T=1-40.txt>
Video: Utah protest targets World Congress of Families’ definition of family
   against the ninth World Congress of Families and its definition of
   family.
   Spreads Hate Not Truth," "Love Makes a Family" and "Don't Diss Adoptive
   The World Congress of Families promotes "the natural family" of a
   strengthen all families.
   But critics say the organization hurts families and supports laws in
   Families to be a "hate group" for fostering homophobia under the guise
   of protecting families.
   of Families. He said the group incites the fear of persecution.
   "This is not about family," Gill said. "This is about tearing families
   the World Council of Families. Gill, Biskupski and Mark Lawrence spoke
   Grand America Hotel as they protest the World Council of Families.
   Grand America Hotel as they protest the World Council of Families.
      Sponsored image Ririe-Woodbury to Perform ‘Wiggle-Friendly’ Family
<T=1-41.txt>
   Opinion Family
Why Christians Need to Embrace a Changing Definition of Family
   Single friends: We “traditional” families need you.
   Why Christians Need to Embrace a Changing Definition of Family
   family.”
   Adoption Baptism Family Washington, D.C.
       Reporting  Family
       Opinion  Family
       life and growing families.
Why Christians Need to Embrace a Changing Definition of Family
   Why Christians Need to Embrace a Changing Definition of Family
<T=1-42.txt>
   For decades, American culture has defined a family as a relatively
   years the definition of family has shifted as society has become more
   They understand that couples and families these days are not just mom
   Family Law Trending Today
     For 40 Years, This Russian Family Was Cut Off From All Human
    George Washington’s Biracial Family Is Getting New Recognition
<T=1-43.txt>
The Conservative Definition of 'Family Values' Is B.S.
   Two advocates launch an initiative to push back against nuclear family
   The term “family values,” particularly when used in election years, is
   rarely about what really matters to children and families. Instead the
   American homes—despite the fact that the “Leave it to Beaver” family
   accurate representation of how families across the country look.
   In a recent piece for Salon, family advocates Mia Birdsong and Nicole
   children were living in this type of...family unit. Today, it’s just 22
   families they encountered, the two decided to launch a new initiative
   called Family Story to change the way we talk about what family
   family” the Family Story website states. The organization is focused on
   countering the idea that there is a single “right” kind of family.
   Conservatives constantly bemoan changes in the American family
   families with working mothers, single parents, LGBT parents, and
   non-parental caregivers. But these types of families defy conservative
   stereotypes and outdated stigmas. Family Story, which allows real
   families to tell their own stories via powerful videos and other media,
   “I hate that ‘family values’ has become a meaningless term often tossed
   around by social conservatives, while all around us there are families
   Family Story’s mission is ambitious yet necessary. The project “will
   innovative and compelling ideas, practices, and solutions that families
   violence, and poor school performance from family structure, and
   contest the myth that the nuclear family is the solution to these
   incisive look at issues around family, gender, culture and “life off
   script.” Before founding and becoming co-director of Family Story, she
   spent years researching data proving that traditional families are not
   been viewed more than 700,000 times. Prio to becoming Family Story
   co-director, she served as vice president of the Family Independence
   “Family Story is not, and will never be, about bashing nuclear
   families,” Nicole Rodgers says. “Two married parents raising children
   wider range of family arrangements.”
   views on what makes a ‘good’ family,” adds Birdsong. “But too few
   counter-narrative. There are incredible, beautiful families who have
   figured out how to make it work outside the nuclear family model. It’s
<T=1-44.txt>
definition of family, supports gay marriage in Australia
   ‘1950s’ definition of family, supports gay marriage in Australia
   country to change its ‘1950s’ definition of family, adding that
   constitutes a family, I don’t think that describes not just gay couples
   with kids but I don’t think it describes blended families.’
   and aimed at gay parent families.
<T=1-45.txt>
ACT redefines family and domestic violence and improves access to civil
   The definition of family and domestic violence will be broadened to
   family and sexual violence, and improve access to legal responses by
   The definition of family and domestic violence will be broadened to
   of family and domestic violence will be broadened to include emotional,
   Attorney-General Simon Corbell said responses to domestic and family
   emphasise that in the ACT, family violence is unacceptable in any
   component of any response to domestic and family violence."
       implements the scheme for national recognition of family violence
       family violence.
   time for victims of family, domestic or sexual violence, and the
   family violence is in step with other jurisdictions and recognised best
   South Wales Law Reform Commissions in their report Family Violence – a
<T=1-46.txt>
   As the Definition of ‘Family’ Evolves, Employers Increasingly Offer PTO
   definition of “family” now includes same-sex parents, the firm said.
   adoptions if they meet the Family and Medical Leave Act’s (FMLA)
The new ‘family’
   varied families, Mercer said, noting that 87% of companies said they
   diverse family structures, which are now commonplace among their
<T=1-47.txt>
2 Examples how America’s Definition of Family is Changing
   The definition of family seems to be changing with our rapidly changing
 The Poly Family
   two dads; or a “poly family” are as legitimate as the traditional
   family of one man and one woman.
   Terms like “family” and “marriage” are being grossly redefined in our
   oxymoron—as were poly families.
   family. Our future depends on it.
 Blended Families
   Large numbers of blended families are a result of high divorce rates.
   We continue to mess with and complicate God’s ecosystem. Family
   Scripture gives us many examples of blended family complexities. But,
   A tip for a blended family’s success is for husbands and wives to make
      Marriage & Family
<T=1-48.txt>
Tinkering with the definition of “family” leads to family court disasters
   continues to disturb me. Yahoo News has a report of two families and
   complexities introduced to the definition of the family by modern
   more. Family Court in this country is simply not equipped to deal with
   either as a favor to another family or completely anonymously through a
   who seek such remedies to start a family constantly see one parent left
   families. Even on the question of surrogacy, why take the risk of
   “family” far too much and we’ve opened up Pandora’s Box, bringing all
   misery of others.) We either need to reform the family court system or
   of family roulette in the first place.
   FamilySticker
   Tags: adoption, child support, children, courts, intact family, judges
<T=1-49.txt>
   affect you or your family, please contact Amanda Tate
     Beyer Beware: An Examination of a Family Limited Partnership Gone
       Discounts on Transfers of Family Business Interests
<T=1-5.txt>
    Family from LoveToKnow
         Family
     Family
     About Family Values
     Definition of Family
Definition of Family
   Family Family can be defined in many different ways.
   Family may seem like a simple concept, but there is no simple
   definition of family. In its most basic terms, a family is a group of
   family means much more, and even the simple idea of genetic bonds can
Basic Family Definition
   or a blood bond is a family.
      Legal Bonds: Families are legally bound through marriages,
       expanded, or dissolved to change the composition of a family.
       ancestor are part of a family. This includes both close and distant
       nieces, nephews, and cousins. Researching a family tree or
       genealogical records can reveal familial blood bonds.
   Despite the apparent simplicity of this definition of family, the idea
   of family goes far beyond just legal or blood relationships for many
Types of Families
   There are many different types of families, each of which is equally
      Nuclear Family: Also called a conjugal family, this is the parents
      Extended Family: This type of family includes all relatives in
       In a family household that is extended, these relatives typically
       family is also called a joint family or multigenerational family
      Complex Family: This type of extended family has three or more
       adults plus their children. This type of family may be formed
       families may be complex even without formal legal bonds between the
      Step Family: This is a family where the adults have divorced and
       new nuclear family. The children may come from several different
      Traditional Family: This is a family unit defined in the classic
       duties and child-rearing. This strict definition of family is less
      Adopted Family: This type of family shares legal bonds but not
       parent. Adopted families can also be defined in an emotional or
      Foster Family: A foster family includes one or more adult parent
   Many families can be classified as more than one specific type, and
   every family has its unique characteristics that make it special and
Defining Your Family
   can help you create your definition of family, there is more to family
   relationships than these basic concepts. A true family provides its
   provide them with emotional and spiritual connection as family, even if
   they share no legal or genetic bonds. For example, a church "family"
   are not formally related. Similarly, a work family has common
   formal bonds. College fraternities and sororities often share familial
   people are even creating online or virtual families of individuals who
   The definition of family is constantly evolving, and every person can
   define family in a different way to encompass the relationships she
   shares with people in her life. Over time one's family will change as
   one's life changes and the importance of family values and rituals
   deepen. Every member who is truly family will help make it richer.
      Meaning of Family
      Definition of a Blended Family
      Definition of Extended Families
      Definition of a Nuclear Family
   Family Night Ideas
   Fun Family Outdoor Activities
   Trending in Family
     Family Games for Picnics
     Family Night Activities for Church
   Family Categories
     About Family Values
     Family Activities
     Military Families
     Family Night Ideas
     Photos of Summer Family Fun
     Fun Family Outdoor Activities
     Frugal Fun for the Family
   Definition of Family
<T=1-50.txt>
      Family
      Family
           Family Activities
Toyota's new 'cuddly' robot could expand the definition of family
   provide companionship — just like any other member of the family.
   Related topics: Family Activities, Technology
      Family
<T=1-51.txt>
Family violence a bigger health risk for women than smoking, drinking,
   Related Story: Australian families suffering 'silent war' of domestic
Family and domestic violence support services:
<T=1-52.txt>
Family Leave Needs To Be Bigger, Broader, And Gayer
   But that was a long time ago when a family could live off of one
   It was also when gay families and the LGBT community in general were
   But the times are changing. And family leave needs to catch up.
   But as I get older, I see my friends and family members having children
   chosen family members.
   The Family Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) was signed to “help working
   parents and other caregivers balance work and family.” Of course, its
   definition of “family” is very narrow, and although last summer’s
   means to be “family.” Many of us have been rejected by our biological
   cases, these chosen family members love us more than our blood
   Yet if my friend, who I define as family, falls ill and has no one else
   And the issue of expanding the definition of “family” isn’t just a gay
   family and medical leave. It affects us, it affects our loved ones, and
   who will work to expand the legal definitions of family within the FMLA
   lives and the families of every worker, whether they are the CEO of a
   kitchen all day. Family leave shouldn’t just be for white-collar
   on their table deserves paid family and medical leave.
   LGBT Issues Lgbt Lgbt Families
   Family Leave Needs To Be Bigger, Broader, And Gayer
<T=1-53.txt>
      Families
   Families
   of families and brings New York in line with most of the states in the
   A family court dismissed her case, and an appellate court agreed, both
   understandings of marriage and family have evolved since 1991. “The
   D. has become unworkable when applied to increasingly varied familial
   Tags: Families, Law, New York
<T=1-54.txt>
   Comments Feed we're {not} having a baby! » The Changing American Family
The Changing American Family – from New York Times
   By Amy on November 26, 2013 in Family, In The News, Other Research,
   Times entitled The Changing American Family. And in the category of
   disappointing but not surprising, nary a partnered childfree family is
   Author Natalie Angier notes that the American family “has become as
   apparently those many layers do not include partnered families without
   children. While the article does note the increase in single “families
   of one” and families that include “good friends” who are part of the
   category that don’t seem to count enough as “families” that they
   partners but without kids form family. It also only mentions families
   of one in passing; none of the families featured in the piece are
   Thus while the article charts the demographic changes in the family
   landscape across the U.S. quite thoroughly, the families interviewed
The Changing American Family
   stock of our changing definition of family.
   The Schulte-Wayser family is both modern and traditional at the same
   Today, their blended family is a sprawling, sometimes uneasy ensemble
   Today, their blended family is a sprawling, sometimes uneasy ensemble
   If the Burnses seem atypical as an American nuclear family, how about
   number of families with incarcerated parents, a sorry byproduct of
   The typical American family, if it ever lived anywhere but on Norman
   family express unsullied astonishment at how rapidly the family has
<T=1-6.txt>
    Family from LoveToKnow
         Family
     Family
     About Family Values
     Meaning of Family
Meaning of Family
   family
   'Family' is a single word, with many different meanings. People have
   many ways of defining a family and what being a part of a family means
   to them. Families differ in terms of economic, cultural, social, and
   many other facets, but what every family has in common is that the
   people who call it a family are making clear that those people are
   important in some way to the person calling them his family.
Definition of Family
   The dictionary defines family in several ways. One definition is "a
   point, there are several modern family structures that are excluded by
   family unit. Another definition is "Two or more people who share goals
   majority of modern family units; for the purposes of this article, the
Who Makes a Family?
   The traditional family consists of a father, mother and children. This
   is the family shown on television as the standard family. However, the
   21st century showcases a variety of family units, some very different
   families opt to have no children, or cannot have children due to some
   family is a basic definition; however, in order to accurately
   acknowledge other family structures, a broader definition is necessary.
   In addition to a more universal family definition, there are also
   plenty of people who consider a group of friends to be family, and
   adults who consider pets as defining members of the family unit.
Friends as Family
   extended (or immediate) family. People who have lost close family
   members may create a family unit of friends with similar interests and
   goals to become replacements or enhancements to a lacking family
   structure. This type of family unit, while untraditional, can be just
   important than the family a person was born with. In addition, some
   people who have supportive families also have an extensive network of
   friends who they consider to be a second family or as additions to
Pets as Family
   Pets can also become members of a family unit. Pets add an element of
   responsibility to a family, particularly for children. For couples who
   for as additional family members by many people and are mourned as such
Redefining Family
   Rather than simply defining family by a dictionary definition, each
   individual should look to define a family by his own standards,
   enriching the dictionary's definition. You can have several families in
   your lifetime, even several families at once if you choose. Regardless
   of how you choose to define your family unit, whether it is traditional
   or unique, your definition is of the family unit that works for you. As
   the saying goes, "Family is what you make it." Whether made of blood
   relatives, friends, or pets, or a combination of these, your family can
      Definition of Family
      Definition of a Blended Family
      Definition of Extended Families
      What Is Considered Immediate Family?
   Family Night Ideas
   Fun Family Outdoor Activities
   Trending in Family
     Family Games for Picnics
     Family Night Activities for Church
   Family Categories
     About Family Values
     Family Activities
     Military Families
     Family Night Ideas
     Photos of Summer Family Fun
     Fun Family Outdoor Activities
     Frugal Fun for the Family
   Meaning of Family
<T=1-7.txt>
family
   noun, plural families.
       the traditional family.
       a single-parent family.
   We want a large family.
   We're taking the family on vacation next week.
   to marry into a socially prominent family.
   young men of family.
   the office family.
   the family of romantic poets; the halogen family of elements.
   Many hippie communes of the sixties regarded themselves as families.
   spoken families of languages.
   Compare stock (def 12), subfamily (def 2).
   of, relating to, or characteristic of a family:
   a family trait.
   belonging to or used by a family:
   a family automobile; a family room.
   a family amusement park.
   a family newspaper.
   in a / the family way, pregnant.
   Origin of family 
   1350-1400; Middle English familie < Latin familia a household, the
   antifamily, adjective
   interfamily, adjective
   Examples from the Web for family 
       from my family for seven weeks.
      He also hid a Jewish family in his cellar and saved their lives.
      The McCormack family put the place up for sale eight years later.
      Neither he nor any of his family will talk on the record or discuss
      But the family remained tight-knit, and the kids frequently visited
       Will Sheen's Family Save Him? Jacob Bernstein, Nicole LaPorte
      The women would be more closely bound to the family than the men.
      Pen and I would have raised a family and I'd have had no time to
      A tumbler had no business with a family, but what was a man going
       family.
      After a death the friends of the family should call in person
   British Dictionary definitions for family 
family
    2. (as modifier): family quarrels, a family unit
   ancestor Compare extended family
   and which contains one or more genera. Felidae (cat family) and Canidae
   (dog family) are two families of the order Carnivora
   each curve: a family of concentric circles
   (informal) in the family way, pregnant
   C15: from Latin familia a household, servants of the house, from
   Word Origin and History for family 
   early 15c., "servants of a household," from Latin familia "family
   meaning "suitable for a family," by 1807. Family values first recorded
   1966. Phrase in a family way "pregnant" is from 1796. Family circle is
   1809; family man "man devoted to wife and children, man inclined to
   family in a slang sense of "the fraternity of thieves").
     Happy family an assemblage of animals of diverse habits and
   family in Medicine 
   family in Science 
   names of families end in -ae, a plural ending in Latin. In the animal
   kingdom, family names end in -idae, as in Canidae (dogs and their kin),
   family in Culture 
family definition
   biological family. Human beings belong to the biological family of
   Idioms and Phrases with family 
family
      in a family way
      run in the blood (family)
Difficulty index for family
Word Value for family
      first family
Nearby words for family
      families
      familism
      familist
      familistic
      family
      family allowance
      family and medical leave act of 1993
      family balancing
      family bible
      family circle
<T=1-8.txt>
Embracing A More Realistic And Inclusive Definition Of Family
   Jared Make Senior Staff Attorney, A Better Balance: The Work and Family
   Who makes up a family?
   For most Americans today, family includes a range of loved ones--from
   siblings and close friends. However, the most prevalent family
   relationships. All too often, policymakers define family narrowly,
   U.S. depart from the "nuclear family" model of a married husband and
   wife and their children. Many family trends contribute to this fact.
   family. Americans are also waiting longer to marry and are living with
   big step forward in recognizing that families come in all shapes and
   care for personal or family health and safety needs. Workers in Chicago
   sick days laws both cover a broad set of family relationships,
   sick days movement by including "chosen family"-- an individual with
   equivalent to family, even absent a blood or legal relationship.
   close friends or extended family members (family members other than a
   recognize these extended and chosen family members. The L.A. paid sick
   family and caregiving relationships in the city.
   family. The government's broad family definition has existed in
   Representatives to expand the FMLA's limited family definition to
   include new relationships, including chosen family.
   Other places are modernizing their family definition as well.
   raising awareness about the need to expand family recognition. From
   justice advocates are pushing lawmakers to adopt broad family
   definitions that include chosen family. Cities as diverse as L.A.,
   Minneapolis and Chicago have recognized that families today are
   Wendy Chun-Hoon is the D.C. Director of Family Values @ Work. Jared
   authors created an LGBTQ/Work-Family Project that is working across
   and expand family definitions in law and policy.
   Family Lgbt Americans Family And Medical Leave Act
   Embracing A More Realistic And Inclusive Definition Of Family
<T=1-9.txt>
The Disappearing Nuclear Family And The Shift To Non-Traditional Households
   The 2010 Census revealed surprises about family structure and the
   with "traditional" nuclear families -- Mom, Dad and two children.
   Today, more and more Americans live alone. There are blended families,
   to the New American Family study by MetLife's Mature Market Institute,
   family.
   Seventy-two percent of families surveyed by MetLife have children, most
   percent of grandparents have given monetary gifts to their families and
   households, according to the New American Family study cited above, say
   Those in all configurations of families have concerns in common and
   care. Second-marriage couples in blended families with children from
   In summary, everyone in every type of family can and should take action
   throughout their lives without having to be a burden on their families.
   The Disappearing Nuclear Family And The Shift To Non-Traditional
