   #Pew Research Center RSS Feed Pew Research Center » Fewer than half of
   U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family Comments Feed alternate
   alternate

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MVFJNW

   JSON Representation Prism XML Version Plain Text Version Pew Research
   Center Blog RSS Feed

   Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World

   About | Follow Us

   Pew Research Center
     * Menu
     * Research Areas

     * Home
     * U.S. Politics
     * Media & News
     * Social Trends
     * Religion
     * Internet & Tech
     * Science
     * Hispanics
     * Global

     * Publications
     * Topics
     * Data
     * Methods
     * Interactives
     * Fact Tank
     * Experts

   Fact Tank - Our Lives in Numbers
   December 22, 2014

Fewer than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family

   By Gretchen Livingston90 comments
   Less than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family

   Fewer than half (46%) of U.S. kids younger than 18 years of age are
   living in a home with two married heterosexual parents in their first
   marriage. This is a marked change from 1960, when 73% of children fit
   this description, and 1980, when 61% did, according to a Pew Research
   Center analysis of recently released American Community Survey (ACS)
   and Decennial Census data.

   Less than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family Rapid
   changes in American family structure have altered the image of who’s
   gathering for the holidays. While the old “ideal” involved couples
   marrying young, then starting a family, and staying married till “death
   do they part,” the family has become more complex, and less
   “traditional.”

   Americans are delaying marriage, and more may be foregoing the
   institution altogether. At the same time, the share of children born
   outside of marriage now stands at 41%, up from just 5% in 1960. While
   debate continues as to whether divorce rates have been rising or
   falling in recent decades, it’s clear that in the longer term, the
   share of people who have been previously married is rising, as is
   remarriage.

   According to our analysis, today 15% of children are living with two
   parents who are in a remarriage. It is difficult to accurately identify
   stepchildren in the ACS data, so we don’t know for sure if these kids
   are from another union, or were born within the remarriage. However,
   data from another Census source—the 2013 Current Population Survey
   (CPS)—indicates that 6% of all children are living with a stepparent.

   One of the largest shifts in family structure is this: 34% of children
   today are living with an unmarried parent—up from just 9% in 1960, and
   19% in 1980. In most cases, these unmarried parents are single.
   However, a small share of all children—4%—are living with two
   cohabiting parents, according to CPS data. Because of concerns about
   the quality of the new 2013 ACS data on same-sex marriage, we do not
   separate out the very small number of children whose parents are
   identified as in this type of union, but instead fold them into this
   “single parent” category.

   The remaining 5% of children are not living with either parent. In most
   of these cases, they are living with a grandparent—a phenomenon that
   has become much more prevalent since the recent economic recession.

   Topics: Demographics, Marriage and Divorce, Parenthood
   Share the link: http://pewrsr.ch/1zW
    1. Photo of Gretchen Livingston
       Gretchen Livingston is a senior researcher focusing on fertility
       and family demographics at Pew Research Center.
          + Posts
          + Email
          + Bio
          + @DrGMLivingston

   Get Pew Research Center data by email ____________________ Signup

90 Comments

    1. Anonymous • 8 months ago
       this is sad…really
    2. [105046036009978271434?sz=36]
       Porter Sykes • 1 year ago
       The family can be complicated, especially in these times. There are
       lots of issues and differences that can rise up between people.
       Although there are many different kinds of families, and many can
       find success through love and nurture, I feel that a family headed
       by a mother and father in love and unity provides the greatest
       possibilities for children. All marriages will experience problems
       and conflicts. Big ones at times. Life is just like that, hard.
       However, the new trend is that when something is hard you can just
       get out, quit, and that seems to be a rising trend in the family as
       well. When a family is broken there is lost opportunity for mutual
       growth and love among parents and children as well as brothers and
       sisters. Being in a family really needs to be about putting the
       needs of someone else above your own, and that really creates an
       environment of love, mutual respect, and progress. When parents
       have the perspective that their family can last longer than just
       this life, it helps them to realize that their is such great
       potential in the family. Some of our greatest difficulties can come
       through family issues, but at the same time, the greatest happiness
       we can and will ever experience will be through our families.
    3. tommy rittner • 1 year ago
       my parnets got a divorce and its not really having an effect on me,
       is something wrong???
         1. jack • 1 year ago
            no don’t worry my parents had a divorce, you may not be
            affected, but you may start to realize you’re acting
            differently or are affected and don’t want to admit it. you’re
            not “heartless” or cold, like u might think you are, it’s ok.
              1. Pam Detweiler • 1 year ago
                 Numb to their need, a reason for the commitment to
                 another through sacrifice!! Dying to self is our real
                 need in marriage. Very few are willing to put the
                 children above themselves! It is an all about
                 ‘me’existence as the children are forced to live through
                 the fall out, the stark carnage, of a Godless non
                 nurtured, sadly egnored generation! Loving things and
                 abusing or egnoring little people! It is a cause for deep
                 sadness, for all!
                   1. Julie • 1 year ago
                      Agreed. Ask a parent if they’d give their right arm
                      for their child and most all of them would answer a
                      resounding “Yes!” Ask them to stay in a difficult
                      marriage and work on it for the sake of their
                      children and the answer is not so unanimous.
                      Children in intact families do better on every
                      measure of success. Marriages can (and often do) get
                      better with maturity. You have to be willing to
                      stick it out through both the good times AND the
                      bad.
         2. Anonymous • 9 months ago
            no,theres nothing wrong with you maybe you just dont have a
            big affect on it like your okay with it
    4. Bob Schwarz • 1 year ago
       I write a global blog called EXODUS TREKKERS, and would like to
       know if your stats in this very fine article have been or need to
       be significantly up[dated…Bob
    5. Kalita • 1 year ago
       well I’m not surprised… people these days are not as responsible
       and aren’t ready to handle family or marriage as well… and when
       girls get pregnant guys duck out and are like “well handle your own
       crap I’m outta here” and then this info pops up.
    6. Batman • 1 year ago
       not accurate information what so ever
    7. Anon • 1 year ago
       Been on my own since 14. My adoptive mother died when I had just
       turned 13- I had no relationship with her husband. When she died,
       he sent me off to abusive places under the guise of “getting help”
       my entire college fund was spent up to a million dollars in places
       that were abusive. I aged out of these facilities at 18 and have
       been on my own since. I never had anyone (closed adoption) and
       since 13 have never really had anyone. Been on my own.
         1. Anonymous • 8 months ago
            My heart goes out to you. Realize there is someone who had
            always been there waiting for you, who will alway love you no
            matyet what you have done or where you have been. God wil
            alway love you, he loves you so much he sent his son to die
            one the cross for you all you have to do is take the first
            step, and ask him into your heart
    8. Kristin Yokum • 1 year ago
       On the subject of kids living with grandparents, I agree that it
       has become more prevalent. And I think it has caused a lot of
       issues not only in the children’s lives but also in the
       grandparents as well. Not only that, elderly people, in my opinion,
       aren’t usually equipped to care for children due to health issues
       caused by old age.
    9. [108128373103465402046?sz=36]
       Bridgitt Lee • 2 years ago
       A lot of gay people and asexual people got married and/or had
       children, because they thought they were supposed to, even though
       deep down, they knew it wasn’t for them. They pretty much hide in
       the closet until they can’t take it, and end up divorced. I grew up
       in amily wre the women are happily single. The hated the
       marriage/mortage thing, said it’s trap, and they dnured a lot of
       thankless suffering from their husbands family,a nd from the
       governemt. They were not happily married at all, some of them had
       kids, even though they didn’t want them or couldn’t afford them,
       and deeply regret it, I have a grandmother who hates her son,
       because he is very abusive, and she wishes she could have aborted
       him, because he’s disgusting, and he hides behind his religion. As
       she said, none of her prayers were answered, so she gave up, and
       goes one day at a time. She doesn’t push religion on my mom or I at
       all. Pretty much the women got married because they thought they
       supposed to, even though they really didn’t know better or didn’t
       want it, and stayed and endured lots of hardships and tragedies and
       got nothing out of it, and only now have peace in being single. A
       lot of them stayed married because of religion and tradition, even
       thought he best thing would have been to stay single or to get
       divorced. Them staying together helped to screw up their kid and
       kids even more. The women sacrificed and compromised for nothing,
       and hated it. Some single parents do a pretty good job, you know?
         1. Alicia • 1 year ago
            The Bible says the homosexual life is a sin.Those who do such
            things will not enter heaven.But those who repent and receive
            Jesus will find salvation if they abandon their former
            works.Remarriage according to the Bible is also sin unless the
            first spouse is deceased.
            Romans 7:2-3
            1 Corinthians 7:39
            Matthew 5:31-32
            1 Corinthians 6:9-11
            I pray you find what you are looking for in Christ Jesus
            alone!
            John 3:16
            For God so loved the world
            That He gave His only Son
            that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have
            eternal life.
              1. Pastor Steve • 1 year ago
                 Allcia, you are exactly the kind of person that omits
                 grace. It is not your place to condemn or convict. It’s
                 your job to love your neighbor as yourself. You without
                 sin cast the first stone. I guarantee you if I was fly on
                 your wall for 10 minutes I could formulate a long list of
                 sins in your life. Sin does not have sub categories…your
                 just as much a sinner as a liar, gossip as is a murderer
                 or in your words….a gay person. Put your rocks back in
                 your pocket and use them for your house. And PLEASE don’t
                 go to church….you will ruin the experience for someone
                 else. Stay home and watch TV evangelist.
                   1. Kim • 1 year ago
                      “Pastor Steve” Can you just chill for a moment?
                      She’s not slamming anybody, she’s stating her
                      beliefs. I happen to agree with her, and she’s not
                      hurling stones. She’s telling the truth. The Bible
                      says it is an abomination. Lying is too. Just cool
                      your jets. There’s nothing to be upset about.
                      I’d like to remind you that you are a sinner too.
                      Also, not telling someone to go to church because
                      they’ll ruin the service? Real mature there,
                      Shepherd of the Flock. You’re acting like a five
                      year-old. Relax.
                   2. Julie • 1 year ago
                      “Pastor” Steve. Paul said, “May we sin so that grace
                      may abound? May it never be!” The BIBLE is the
                      judgment. It is the homosexual action that is the
                      sin. In the same way that if my neighbor’s husband
                      is attractive to me, that is a feeling, but if I act
                      on that feeling, it is now a sin. Or would you tell
                      your “flock” not to judge me? Please, if you are
                      indeed a pastor, read your Bible. Pastors who
                      mislead their flocks are in for a harsh judgment.
                      Don’t be one of them.
                   3. [113655218130874709661?sz=24]
                      Dylan Landon • 12 months ago
                      But Pastor Steve, she is right, its not right for
                      people to be gay or lesbian, and if you really are a
                      pastor, its not right that you are accepting this,
                      you should be one of the leaders to stand against
                      this, its not right, and the fact that you are okay
                      with this shows there is obviously something wrong.
              2. Anonymous • 8 months ago
                 1 Timothy 2:12
   10. bseay • 2 years ago
       My family is in the “two married parents, one or both remarried”
       bucket because I was previously married — a marriage that ended
       without children. My previous marriage has had — and will not have–
       any effect on my children, so I’m bewildered that my family is put
       in your “negative” bucket”. I’d call it “bad research methodology”,
       but it’s not even that — it’s just bad segmentation strategy, which
       puts your whole “study” (which I’d otherwise support) as poorly
       thought out.
   11. Siddy • 2 years ago
       I am curious about how these stats differ for different ethnic and
       socioeconomic groups in the U.S. I am East Indian, and only one of
       my indian-American friends out of hundreds has a divorced parent.
       And no, they are not in forced marriages or anything like that. On
       the other hand, my brother has almost all black friends and
       literally only one of them has a dad at home. He is Haitian though,
       not typical African American.
   12. DB • 2 years ago
       Widespread divorce and family breakdown, single motherhood,
       increased drug use, gun violence and urban decay, all products of
       the 1960’s hippie movements and cultural revolution. The only
       positive things to come out of the 1960’s has been greater
       tolerance for gays and minorities, as well as greater equality for
       women, otherwise the social changes that that decade brought has
       been an unmitigated disaster for America and likely the west in
       general. I fear that until society really reevaluates the impact of
       the extreme individualism and sexual revolution and drug use of the
       1960’s and tries to undo some of the damage that that decade
       wrought we’ll continue to decline until America is no better than a
       third world country.
         1. MG • 2 years ago
            The usual social conservative tripe which isn’t based on any
            factual basis. It was the legalization of no-fault divorce
            starting in CA in ’69 (and quickly adopted conservative and
            liberal alike in the 70s) and the widespread adoption of the
            birth control pill.
            Unless social conservatives agree to get rid of no-fault
            divorces and ban the birth control pill, the ‘genie is out of
            the bottle.’
   13. Polly • 2 years ago
       The traditional family is not an anomaly…it is God’s design for
       marriage. His moral laws apply to ALL people at ALL times. Please
       don’t let anyone mislead you to think that the traditional family
       is just some Leave it to Beaver fantasy that isn’t relevant to
       today’s society. It is the ONLY right way to have a family, in
       God’s eyes.
         1. David Hill • 2 years ago
            Lol, what about mostly Muslim cultures? Isolated tribal
            communities? God is dying, and so is the “traditional” family.
            All you need is one or two loving parents to raise you with
            good morals, NOT the bible’s morals.
              1. [101635486581299315255?sz=24]
                 Paul R • 2 years ago
                 And where do you think “good” morals should come from?
                 You? I hope not.
                   1. Anonymous • 2 years ago
                      Good morals come from the Bible alone, which alone
                      the truth resides in; God is not dead, He is more
                      alive than any of us can ever be, we just need to
                      accept Him and believe in Him; I pray He will lead
                      us all and guide us all in all of our lives and our
                      families.
                   2. Kleiva • 2 years ago
                      good.
                   3. [picture?width=24&height=24]
                      Sean Renaud • 2 years ago
                      They most definitely come from people. There is no
                      place else for them to come from. And no even the
                      Bible had plenty of dudes with multiple wives. This
                      “traditional” family is only a few centuries old and
                      clearly doesn’t seem to have been planned by the
                      imaginary sky bully but go on believing that
                      nonsense if you like.
                        1. Anonymous • 8 months ago
                           You apparently have not read the Bible very
                           much her well you’re on the people who Socrates
                           talks about. If you really read the Bible all
                           oh yes there is multiple wives God speaks
                           against it. All research proves that
                           traditional marriage produces healthier
                           children
         2. victoria • 2 years ago
            what the hell how could you say that any family is the right
            way all you need is for someone to love you and tech you the
            difference between right and wrong.
              1. Sgt. Jerry Rediger • 2 years ago
                 And where does that foundation of right and wrong come
                 from?? Oh, I know! The same God Who designed marriage to
                 be between one man and one woman, and ordained they raise
                 children only within that context!
   14. Anonymous • 2 years ago
       Good job feminists!
   15. Earthy • 2 years ago
       Much more prevenlent? Jumping from 4% to 4% to 5% does not seem to
       be a very big change.
   16. TM • 2 years ago
       Looking at the chart you provided, it seems that there’s been no
       meaningful change in the proportion of families with at least one
       remarried parent or the proportion of no-parent families since
       1960; the dramatic change seems to be the shift from two
       first-marriage parents to all the permutations of “single”
       parenthood. Am I missing something?
         1. Gretchen Livingston • 2 years ago
            Yep you’re right–the share of kids living with remarried
            parents has been remarkably stable. Most of the change in the
            living arrangements of kids has resulted from the increase in
            kids living with single parents.
   17. Tamika • 2 years ago
       Really pew research, you should not be able to use the research
       with statements like this, “Because of concerns about the quality
       of the new 2013 ACS data on same-sex marriage, we do not separate
       out the very small number of children whose parents are identified
       as in this type of union, but instead fold them into this “single
       parent” category, as well.”
   18. Jen H. • 2 years ago
       Nobody in my family reflects the fears of some of these
       commenters–godless, amoral, parentless, public-trough-feeding,
       society-wreckers. And everybody in my family loves *family* just as
       much as the Cleavers or the Traditionals or whoever without
       *looking* anything like them. Nothing can make people stop loving
       each other or stop valuing family. Life happens. It’s messy. It
       doesn’t really matter what shape a family is. I guess mine is at
       least 6th or 7th generation “blended non-traditional”. My
       great-great-grandma was widowed very young. She was poor and was
       capable of caring only for her infant on her own, so she sent my
       toddler great-grandma to be raised by relatives. This was in Italy,
       and my great-grandma grew up and married, but raised her kids
       mostly alone while her husband made more than one years-long,
       grueling, life-changing trips to America, in preparation to bring
       the family over. Shortly after they reunited here, he died. My
       great-grandma continued to raise the 4 kids, including twins,
       alone, taking in boarders for more income. One of her children
       became pregnant at age 14 by a boarder (himself without parents and
       about the same age). They married (so young!) and had 2 more kids
       before he died in a mining accident. Barely out of her teens, his
       widow remarried and had two more kids. Her twin sister was my
       grandma. She married my grandpa (whose dad had arrived in America
       at age 5, with 7 older brothers and no parents, and whose mom had
       been sent over from Sicily as a teen, along with her sister, as
       brides for my grandpa and one of his brothers). They had my mom,
       who didn’t meet her dad until she was three because he had shipped
       off to WWII 6 months before she was born. The war changed things,
       though; they divorced but remained close. She raised my mom with
       his co-parenting help. He remarried and had another child, who was
       still a kid when he passed of heart failure. My mom married my dad,
       who came from a “Beaver Cleaver” family, but…even his dad had been
       briefly married to and divorced from someone else before he met the
       woman he had kids and spent his life with, so in the table above,
       he too would not qualify as traditional. My folks married years
       before I was born, but divorced in the ’80s like so many other
       couples. Now I have step siblings and a half sibling. I have my own
       school-aged child, too, whose dad and I by choice did not marry,
       but were always together in one home with our child. But he passed
       away really young–at 41. I subsequently met a wonderful man who now
       lives with me and my kid. Life happens.
         1. Phoebe • 1 year ago
            Actual life is so much more than any categorization can
            embrace. Thank you for this wonderful sharing of real life’s
            flexibility and relevance! Precious and valuable, that’s who
            and what you are.
   19. Robin • 2 years ago
       How does this compare with other countries? Canada, the UK,
       Germany, France?
   20. a.d.nicholson • 2 years ago
       What we thought of as normal…the traditional family life style for
       those of born in the ’30’s and ’40’s ceased to exist along with
       rotary dial phones, refrigerators with ice trays, the A&P, running
       boards on car and TV antennas on the rooftops, all known as “the
       good ole days”.
       We considered that lifestyle as stable and wholesome. Boy, were we
       naive.
   21. [picture?width=36&height=36]
       Gene Antuna • 2 years ago
       ztuna
       What would be most interesting to me is a study to determine what
       are the main causes of these changes. I am sure there are economics
       and social issues that drive these dramatic changes. What are they?
       What drives them? On the one hand we have all the motives driving
       us away from history and precedence and endorsing things that in
       the past have been questionable: same sex marriage, gay support,
       abortion tolerance and others. We also have a government that
       provides you more food stamps the more kids you have, whether you
       are married or not. Maybe global warming is causing the change,
       maybe tablets and iphones. Go to work pew…. tell me why are these
       changes happening and how can we stop them. That is if we assume
       that kids with no parents is anything good for our society. Right?
         1. [picture?width=24&height=24]
            Gary Thomas • 2 years ago
            You can find the answers in the December 1956 issue of Life
            magazine, “The American Woman, her achievements and troubles”
         2. Siddy • 2 years ago
            Most American girls are, by the standards of most cultures,
            promiscuous. It is not their fault. They are from a culture
            where their parents expect them to date in high school, but
            are horrified if they want to get married at that age. Even a
            woman who is 23/24 is chastised for getting married too young.
            So what happens is girls have sex with numerous men in their
            prime fertile years (16-25). Since there is so much easy sex,
            it is very difficult for men to give this option up for
            marriage. At best, they might live in with their gf, but not
            marry her. This ensures steady sex, and when the girl is 29/30
            and her prospects have diminished considerably, he can then
            easily go out with someone younger. In some cases, the guy
            might be goaded into marriage, but this arrangement is likely
            to end in divorce. We think the old fashioned way of courtship
            and marriage is bad for women, but is it really? I find that
            much preferable to the current situation, where girls give the
            youthful years of their lives and emotions to guys who then
            kick them to the curb.
              1. Dee • 1 year ago
                 So the problem is acutally the men then? Women never
                 stopped wanting to be in a committed relationship. Maybe
                 the men need to learn to be more chaste?
   22. Al Devault • 2 years ago
       As we “progress” into a more socialistic society there are some
       basic truths that must be addressed. Socialism requires that there
       be no higher power than the “state” which sees to the needs of its
       citizens. Therefore parental guidance is a hindrance to progress as
       is the notion of a power greater than the state, i.e., God.
       Psychologist and psychiatrists have destroyed the concept of a
       conscience by stressing self esteem and the idea that “if it feels
       good it’s not wrong!” The fundamental basis for religion, the
       Golden Rule, has been relegated to the trash can.
       Unless we can restore the concept of a nuclear family as the norm,
       this great experiment in self rule will disappear. That’s not the
       warning of a bible-banging zealot, it is a statement of fact. Our
       Founding Fathers understood this basic truth and built it into the
       fabric of our system. Creeping socialism, fostered by the
       self-centered intellectual academics are bent upon destroying it
       for their own gain.
         1. [picture?width=24&height=24]
            Sally Baker McCarty • 2 years ago
            You couldn’t be more wrong. Read the article. The presence of
            the so-called “traditional” family has waned as government has
            become less dominant. Their heydays were in the thirties,
            forties,and fifties when taxes were highest and more federal
            programs — CCC, Works Progress, etc. were in place to bring
            our economy back from the great depression and World War II.
            Our DIVORCED president Reagan started moving us away from
            government support and, if you look at the chart, that’s when
            things started getting worse. You don’t really seem to know
            what socialism is, yet you throw the term around like you do.
              1. bonnie • 2 years ago
                 Get real!! Families are changing – not for the
                 better–from govt interference and dependence!! More
                 children equal more govt money!!
         2. Nicole • 1 year ago
            Interesting you mentioned the ‘founding fathers’ when Benjamin
            Franklin had a bastard child with a French woman and Thomas
            Jefferson was raping his slaves. Right.. this is the Godly
            values you’re preaching.
            I do agree with the logic that people have become selfish to
            the point they do not comprehend the impact divorces and
            broken families have on children. I do NOT disagree with
            social welfare but I do disagree with permitting men to skip
            out on their children. If men were jailed for not taking care
            of their children watch how quickly condom use would sky
            rocket.
            Women who have children because they just feel like it are
            extremely selfish if they do not have stability and resources.
            The politically correctness needs to stop. If you choose to
            have children make damn sure you’re prepared to remain
            miserable with a willing partner who will go to work and help
            you care for those kids in every way not just monetary. Same
            goes for men.
            But spare the psycho babble about the founding fathers being
            so ‘Godly’
              1. Julie • 1 year ago
                 There is no sound evidence for the slander of Jefferson.
                 Public school?
   23. James • 2 years ago
       I would love to know what the stats from 1910 would look like. To
       hear my father (born in 1908) tell it, far more people didn’t live
       in intact households in 1915 than in 1970.
       For one thing, no antibiotics or chemotherapy. People who got
       pneumonia, tuberculosis or breast cancer just died, so it was very
       common for a widowed father or mother to be raising their children
       with or without the help of their parents.
       Secondly, people who were in bad financial straits boarded one or
       more kids with relatives or even trusted neighbors. My father had
       an unemployed neighbor whose wife ran away and left him with their
       daughter, for some reason, and the man asked my grandparents to
       raise her until he got a good job elsewhere in the country and was
       on his feet. That lasted a couple of years.
       I would bet fewer children grew up in “traditional families” in the
       1850s or early 1900s than in the 1960s.
         1. Earthy • 2 years ago
            Very well put. In Colonial ( Founding Fathers) days people
            died age 35 so remarriage and foster children was the norm.
   24. JFE • 2 years ago
       Can we change the terminology from “traditional” family to
       “post-war” family or “boomer” family? “Traditional” sounds like the
       family structure has been the same for eons and eons that only
       happen to start changing around 1970. Certainly statisticians at
       Pew should be using more accurate terms.
         1. Gretchen Livingston • 2 years ago
            Yes in fact the ‘Leave it to Beaver’ style family of the 1950s
            and early 1960s was actually an anomaly in many ways, but
            because people so often use the term ‘traditional’ as a
            shorthand way of describing this 1950s-era family structure, I
            used the term myself, albeit in quotes.
              1. [picture?width=24&height=24]
                 Sally Baker McCarty • 2 years ago
                 True. There is really no one model of the “traditional
                 family.” Especially, given the fact that 40-50% of those
                 “Father Knows Best” family marriages end in divorce.
         2. Earthy • 2 years ago
            Here here, very well put. Launguage has such an effect on our
            thinking. The studies help us to see what is at this point
            happening, not what’s traditional. In my case divorcing to be
            single ment a safer household, and I am not alone. The stats
            are what they are and to push them to fit a TV fantasy might
            be rude, pushy and in many cases dangerous to children.
         3. William • 2 years ago
            So 500-5000 years doesn’t make it traditional?
   25. Rob the Quiet • 2 years ago
       However we wish to spin this, the US Census data spanning the last
       70 years have been potentially skewed by collection methods, data
       architecture, and geographical boundary changes, so even at the
       aggregate level I would hesitate to draw any meaningful conclusions
       as presented here by Pew, not without giving deserved credit to the
       researchers for controlling for such effects. Taking a more
       systemic viewpoint, however, one might consider the state of
       marriage within the constellations of religion, taxation, and
       growing acceptance of gender classes, alongside public perception
       as shaped by media and government policy. As Gary has tagged “the
       realities of life” as a negative, I would propose in turn that a
       society in touch with the “positive reality” of a climate of
       universal respect would do a better job of supporting children
       through education, healthcare and social equity.
         1. Earthy • 2 years ago
            “positive reality” of a climate of universal respect would do
            a better job of supporting children through education,
            healthcare and social equity. LOVE this!
         2. Julie • 1 year ago
            Except that statistics do not bear this out. However, if you
            want life to be more equitable, I’ll send you my PayPal
            address and you can share some of your wealth.
   26. Alison Stewart • 2 years ago
       The ‘traditional’ family is hardly traditional at all. As an avid
       family history hunter, I have discovered (within my own family at
       least) families which have one set of parents are very few and far
       between, and generally only occur post WW2 and before 1980 – just
       about one generational span. The difference between today’s ‘non
       traditional’ families and those of yesteryear, is that today’s
       families have been ‘broken’ by choice rather than death. I have one
       fellow in my family tree who married three times, resulting in
       three sets of children with the three different women (his third
       and final wife was half his age). The reason behind the multiple
       marriages? Death in child birth. Today’s ‘non-traditional families’
       may not have parents who live together – but at least (for the most
       part) they are still alive!
         1. JFE • 2 years ago
            Great point Allison! I just made a comment that what Pew is
            really discussing here is the “post-war” family, and not some
            static “traditional” family that magically stayed intact
            throughout history until sometime in the 1970s.
         2. terry H • 2 years ago
            Allison
            I am curious about your conclusion. What extensive document
            research have you done on the subject? What are your Genealogy
            or History credentials that help to make your position
            credible? What sources did you use?
            Records that would show your position to be incorrect include:
            1.U.S census records from 1790 to 1940. Records after 1940 are
            sealed.
            These records show an overwhelming evidence of two parent
            families. While there are errors in the Census they tend to be
            spelling errors.
            2. Church records also reflect two parent families.
            3. Most counties had at least two county histories. Both will
            contain biographical sketches of some (but not all )
            residents. These records also reflect traditional family
            structure.
            4. Other records that also will give you information on family
            structure include:Probate records, Immigration records,
            Newspaper records, Death records, marriage records, City
            Directories (directories started in the 1790’s and up to the
            present) Directories exist for most every town and city in the
            United States
            My background:
            Historian M.A. University of New York
            Professional Genealogist since 1970
            Have taught History and Genealogy at the college level since
            1988
         3. David • 2 years ago
            What makes a traditional family is more than that; its that
            everybody knows their rol in this world and have trust in the
            stability and loyalty of marriage.
   27. [picture?width=36&height=36]
       Illidan Stormragge • 2 years ago
       In my case it’s hard to find any decent long-term partners. People
       are just too different from each other today. Back in the day,
       people were much more similar to each other in looks, background,
       and views. Now everyone is too different. It’s a challenge just
       looking for someone you can imagine raising children with. Then
       again it depends on which part of the country you are born but I am
       talking mainly about city-life.
   28. Buck Wheaton • 2 years ago
       “Young men who grow up in homes without fathers are twice as likely
       to end up in jail as those who come from traditional two-parent
       families…those boys whose fathers were absent from the household
       had double the odds of being incarcerated — even when other factors
       such as race, income, parent education and urban residence were
       held constant.” (Cynthia Harper of the University of Pennsylvania
       and Sara S. McLanahan of Princeton University cited in “Father
       Absence and Youth Incarceration.” Journal of Research on
       Adolescence 14 (September 2004): 369-397.)
   29. Eddie • 2 years ago
       Wonder why the USA is so screwed up these days? Here is the answer.
       As the family goes so goes society. Too bad. USA RIP.
   30. Itay Banner • 2 years ago
       Very interesting analysis. The major shift is between traditional
       marriage towards single parenthood, it seems. But Is this single
       parenthood a result of divorce or of people intentionally opting to
       have a child “on their own”? Do widowers remarry more or less
       during the years? Is there any data on that?
         1. Gretchen Livingston • 2 years ago
            The share of ever-married people who divorce has risen
            dramatically, but so has the share of babies born outside of
            marriage, so both factors have likely contributed to the
            increase in single parenthood. Widowers are typically less
            likely to remarry than people who get divorced.
   31. Gary • 2 years ago
       As kids, it can be very challenging when there is instability in
       the family. Kids can struggle in school in their drive and
       concentration, and even turn to drugs and other habits to escape
       the realities of life. Along with global competition for jobs, it
       is becoming much more difficult to make the income to become a home
       owner, pay for healthcare, education, and with America’s debt
       piling up, we will have to work together as Americans to come up
       with better non-partisan solutions.
         1. Dave Hahn • 2 years ago
            This was forecasted to happen a long time ago. Actually in
            1968 July 25th. I remember that date because it is one day
            before I was born. Paul VI wrote a letter called Humanae
            Vitae. If you look back at what he wrote you can see how
            prophetic he was. The answer to these problems and the many
            other problems we face in our world is to understand the
            sacredness behind human sexuality. I know nobody wants anybody
            to go into anybody else’s bedroom. I don’t either that is an
            invasion of privacy. However if we desire to have a peaceful
            happy world it all hinges on human sexuality. If we get that
            right we get the rest right. Think of it our sexuality is the
            most awesome expression of love and we become co-creators with
            God. When we use our sexuality as a means for our self
            gratification rather than for what God intended it to be it
            throws love off and it throws the whole meaning and purpose of
            procreation off as well. Getting those two things wrong messes
            everything up. Getting those two things right puts us on the
            track for happiness. True happiness because it reveals
            authentic love.
              1. Earthy • 2 years ago
                 Beautiful
         2. Earhty • 2 years ago
            Stability, good point. It is the stability that benifits the
            children and loving stability can and does come in a wide
            variety of combinations. Two heterosexual, biological parents
            is NOT a garentee of stability. There is a great deal of work
            we can do to help people honor each other so to live
            harmoniously.
   32. B.F. • 2 years ago
       And this is the reason that the United States is in moral decline.
       As the traditional family goes, so goes the morality of this
       country.
         1. [picture?width=24&height=24]
            Sally Baker McCarty • 2 years ago
            You can’t consider traditional families to be “stable” when
            40-50% of first marriages — and 60% of second marriages — end
            in divorce. So, there really are no traditional families to
            speak of — and haven’t been since the ’40’s.
         2. Earhty • 2 years ago
            Many “traditional “families are disrespectful of women,
            dishonoring and abusive. Children and spouses die behind
            closed doors and I am not in favor of that.
   33. George Dreckmann • 2 years ago
       I would love to see a break down along racial lines if possible. So
       much is made about single parent families in the African American
       community but I am guessing that the numbers will be fairly high in
       the white community as well.
         1. mplo • 1 year ago
            There are a lot of single-parent household families in poor
            white communities, as well. South Boston and Charlestown are
            good examples of such communities, where there’s a high
            percentage of extreme poverty, drug addiction, crime and
            incarceration and unemployment (especially among young males),
            and high percentages of dysfunctional and/or busted-up
            families, especially in the housing projects in those two
            communities.
         2. Julie • 1 year ago
            newsone.com/1195075/children-sin… Here you go. Broken down by
            race.
   34. Kat • 2 years ago
       Can you explain why you folded children from same-sex marriages
       into the single parent category?
         1. Gretchen Livingston • 2 years ago
            Hi Kat, my preference would have been to include kids in
            same-sex marriages in a distinct category, but there is
            concern that same-sex married couples are not being accurately
            identified in the American Community Survey, which is the data
            source I used. I opted instead to include the very small
            number of kids who appear to have same-sex married parents in
            the ‘single’ category which also includes children who are
            living with two unmarried, cohabiting parents.
            If you want to read more about the data issues that have
            arisen in regards to identifying same-sex couples, check out
            this link: pewrsr.ch/1paFYwI, or the work of Gary Gates.
              1. Lotte • 2 years ago
                 Personally I would think that separating out “unmarried
                 cohabiting parents” (whether gay or straight) would be
                 useful.
                 There’s a strong focus in the US on marriage, whereas
                 data from Europe shows that it’s very possible to have a
                 long-term relationship, in which kids are being raised,
                 outside of marriage.
                 I think in such relationships, you have two parents that
                 share responsibilities, which is quite different from
                 having only on parent, so it’d be useful not to sweep
                 them under a single-parent category.
                   1. Gretchen Livingston • 2 years ago
                      Yes cohabiting parents are certainly different than
                      single parents without a partner in the household.
                      Estimates suggest that about 5% of children are
                      living in these types of arrangements. In the U.S.
                      now, cohabitation is not as stable or as
                      institutionalized as it is in Europe, though it will
                      be interesting to see if that changes with time, if
                      it continues to become more prevalent.
              2. Marisol Fuentes • 2 years ago
                 There were several ways you could have handled this
                 without denigrating lesbian and gay families. If you lump
                 LGB married families with a second group consisting of
                 single parent families and yet another group consisting
                 of cohabiting, unmarried families, the resulting group is
                 not accurately described as “Single Parent Family.” Since
                 such a label is false and misleading – not to mention
                 appallingly disrespectful to married same-sex couples –
                 you don’t use that label. You call it something else.
                 Like “Other” or “Various” or anything else that is both
                 accurate and respectful. If you tried really hard, you
                 could probably come up with something better than what
                 you did, which is both inaccurate and disrespectful.
                 Further, it is unclear why “concerns” about the ACS data
                 warrant their complete disregard. If you conclude the
                 data are false, say so and say why. If you haven’t
                 concluded that the ACS data are false, then why are you
                 disregarding them? Why not run the numbers both ways
                 (i.e., breaking out LGB families and folding them into an
                 “Other” category)?
         2. Jason • 2 years ago
            I think they did. That data wasn’t available in earlier years,
            so there’d be no comparison.
         3. Jeff • 2 years ago
            They do that because of sample size and the margin of error.
            If there is too few data points because your asking too
            specific of a question, you keep getting a larger margin of
            error while also receiving a smaller estimate.
            Hypothetically, if you can ask such a specific question, that
            you can have a larger margin of error than an actual estimate.
   35. Darnell Shelton • 2 years ago
       I really love the old shows, Like, Leaver it to Beaver. The Andy
       Griff show, and so on like family base shows. I would love to see
       more LOVE and happiness, and togetherness type shows. All the
       shooting and killing has to STOP somewhere. People do what they see
       on T.V, We have to stared somewhere in order to STOP, somewhere
       (the killings).
         1. Paul J. • 2 years ago
            Darnell: Not to be a kill joy but as far as “old” TV family
            shows go you forgot to list: The Rifleman, Have Gun Will
            Travel, Bonanza and Gunsmoke to name just a small percentage.
            Shows that in more than a few instances ended “differences”
            via physical violence” at best with a fist and at worst with
            guns.
         2. Earthy • 2 years ago
            Yes, I was watching a lovely show called Touch and many
            cultures were seen and connections to love and caring were
            made. Then as time went on the episodes added killings, etc.
            So sad.

About Fact Tank

   Real-time analysis and news about data from Pew Research writers and
   social scientists.
     * Twitter
     * RSS
     * Archive

Recent Posts

Obama issued fewer executive orders on average than any president since
Cleveland

Police, public differ on key issues but align on others

Two-thirds of Americans give priority to developing alternative energy over
fossil fuels

Obama used clemency power more often than any president since Truman

Almost all U.S. presidents, including Trump, have been Christians

Related

   Fact TankNov 30, 2016

Sharing chores a key to good marriage, say majority of married adults

   Social TrendsOct 26, 2016

Births Outside of Marriage Decline for Immigrant Women

   Fact TankJun 16, 2016

6 facts about American fathers

   Fact TankMay 9, 2014

5 questions (and answers) about American moms today

   Pew Research CenterJun 13, 2013

LGBT Americans

   Pew Research Center 1615 L Street, NW, Suite 800 Washington, DC 20036
   202.419.4300 | Main 202.419.4349 | Fax 202.419.4372 | Media Inquiries

Research Areas

     * U.S. Politics & Policy
     * Journalism & Media
     * Internet, Science & Tech
     * Religion & Public Life
     * Hispanic Trends
     * Global Attitudes & Trends
     * Social & Demographic Trends

Follow Us

     * Email Newsletters
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Tumblr
     * YouTube
     * Google+
     * RSS

   About Pew Research Center Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan fact
   tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends
   shaping America and the world. It conducts public opinion polling,
   demographic research, media content analysis and other empirical social
   science research. Pew Research Center does not take policy positions.
   It is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts.

     * Copyright 2017 Pew Research Center
     * About
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Privacy Policy
     * Reprints, Permissions & Use Policy
     * Feedback
     * Careers
