   #Pew Research Center’s Social & Demographic Trends Project RSS Feed
   alternate alternate

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MVFJNW

   next prev JSON Representation Prism XML Version Plain Text Version

   Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World

   About | Follow Us

   Pew Research Center

   Social & Demographic Trends
     * Menu
     * Research Areas

     * Home
     * U.S. Politics
     * Media & News
     * Social Trends
     * Religion
     * Internet & Tech
     * Science
     * Hispanics
     * Global

     * Publications
     * Topics
     * Interactives
     * Datasets
     * Experts

   December 17, 2015

Parenting in America

1. The American family today

   For children, growing diversity in family living arrangements Family
   life is changing. Two-parent households are on the decline in the
   United States as divorce, remarriage and cohabitation are on the rise.
   And families are smaller now, both due to the growth of single-parent
   households and the drop in fertility. Not only are Americans having
   fewer children, but the circumstances surrounding parenthood have
   changed. While in the early 1960s babies typically arrived within a
   marriage, today fully four-in-ten births occur to women who are single
   or living with a non-marital partner. At the same time that family
   structures have transformed, so has the role of mothers in the
   workplace – and in the home. As more moms have entered the labor force,
   more have become breadwinners – in many cases, primary breadwinners –
   in their families.

   As a result of these changes, there is no longer one dominant family
   form in the U.S. Parents today are raising their children against a
   backdrop of increasingly diverse and, for many, constantly evolving
   family forms. By contrast, in 1960, the height of the post-World War II
   baby boom, there was one dominant family form. At that time 73% of all
   children were living in a family with two married parents in their
   first marriage. By 1980, 61% of children were living in this type of
   family, and today less than half (46%) are. The declining share of
   children living in what is often deemed a “traditional” family has been
   largely supplanted by the rising shares of children living with single
   or cohabiting parents.

   Not only has the diversity in family living arrangements increased
   since the early 1960s, but so has the fluidity of the family.
   Non-marital cohabitation and divorce, along with the prevalence of
   remarriage and (non-marital) recoupling in the U.S., make for family
   structures that in many cases continue to evolve throughout a child’s
   life. While in the past a child born to a married couple – as most
   children were – was very likely to grow up in a home with those two
   parents, this is much less common today, as a child’s living
   arrangement changes with each adjustment in the relationship status of
   their parents. For example, one study found that over a three-year
   period, about three-in-ten (31%) children younger than 6 had
   experienced a major change in their family or household structure, in
   the form of parental divorce, separation, marriage, cohabitation or
   death.

The growing complexity and diversity of families

   The two-parent household in decline The share of children living in a
   two-parent household is at the lowest point in more than half a
   century: 69% are in this type of family arrangement today, compared
   with 73% in 2000 and 87% in 1960. And even children living with two
   parents are more likely to be experiencing a variety of family
   arrangements due to increases in divorce, remarriage and
   cohabitation.^3 Today, fully 62% of children live with two married
   parents – an all-time low. Some 15% are living with parents in a
   remarriage and 7% are living with parents who are cohabiting.^4
   Conversely, the share of children living with one parent stands at 26%,
   up from 22% in 2000 and just 9% in 1960.

   These changes have been driven in part by the fact that Americans today
   are exiting marriage at higher rates than in the past. Now, about
   two-thirds (67%) of people younger than 50 who had ever married are
   still in their first marriage. In comparison, that share was 83% in
   1960.^5 And while among men about 76% of first marriages that began in
   the late 1980s were still intact 10 years later, fully 88% of marriages
   that began in the late 1950s lasted as long, according to analyses of
   Census Bureau data.^6

The rise of single-parent families, and changes in two-parent families

   Black children and those with less educated parents less likely to be
   living in two-parent households Despite the decline over the past half
   century in children residing with two parents, a majority of kids are
   still growing up in this type of living arrangement.^7 However, less
   than half—46%—are living with two parents who are both in their first
   marriage. This share is down from 61% in 1980^8 and 73% in 1960.

   An additional 15% of children are living with two parents, at least one
   of whom has been married before. This share has remained relatively
   stable for decades.

   In the remainder of two-parent families, the parents are cohabiting but
   are not married. Today 7% of children are living with cohabiting
   parents; however a far larger share will experience this kind of living
   arrangement at some point during their childhood. For instance,
   estimates suggest that about 39% of children will have had a mother in
   a cohabiting relationship by the time they turn 12; and by the time
   they turn 16, almost half (46%) will have experience with their mother
   cohabiting. In some cases, this will happen because a never-married
   mother enters into a cohabiting relationship; in other cases, a mother
   may enter into a cohabiting relationship after a marital breakup.

   The decline in children living in two-parent families has been offset
   by an almost threefold increase in those living with just one
   parent—typically the mother.^9 Fully one-fourth (26%) of children
   younger than age 18 are now living with a single parent, up from just
   9% in 1960 and 22% in 2000. The share of children living without either
   parent stands at 5%; most of these children are being raised by
   grandparents.^10

   The majority of white, Hispanic and Asian children are living in
   two-parent households, while less than half of black children are
   living in this type of arrangement. Furthermore, at least half of Asian
   and white children are living with two parents both in their first
   marriage. The shares of Hispanic and black children living with two
   parents in their first marriage are much lower.

   Asian children are the most likely to be living with both parents—fully
   84% are, including 71% who are living with parents who are both in
   their first marriage. Some 13% of Asian kids are living in a
   single-parent household, while 11% are living with remarried parents,
   and just 3% are living with parents who are cohabiting.

   Roughly eight-in-ten (78%) white children are living with two parents,
   including about half (52%) with parents who are both in their first
   marriage and 19% with two parents in a remarriage; 6% have parents who
   are cohabiting. About one-in-five (19%) white children are living with
   a single parent.

   Among Hispanic children, two-thirds live with two parents. All told,
   43% live with two parents in their first marriage, while 12% are living
   with parents in a remarriage, and 11% are living with parents who are
   cohabiting. Some 29% of Hispanic children live with a single parent.

   The living arrangements of black children stand in stark contrast to
   the other major racial and ethnic groups. The majority – 54% – are
   living with a single parent. Just 38% are living with two parents,
   including 22% who are living with two parents who are both in their
   first marriage. Some 9% are living with remarried parents, and 7% are
   residing with parents who are cohabiting.

   Children with at least one college-educated parent are far more likely
   to be living in a two-parent household, and to be living with two
   parents in a first marriage, than are kids whose parents are less
   educated.^11 Fully 88% of children who have at least one parent with a
   bachelor’s degree or more are living in a two-parent household,
   including 67% who are living with two parents in their first marriage.

   In comparison, some 68% of children who have a parent with some college
   experience are living in a two-parent household, and just 40% are
   living with parents who are both in a first marriage. About six-in-ten
   (59%) children who have a parent with a high school diploma are in a
   two-parent household, including 33% who are living with parents in
   their first marriage. Meanwhile, just over half (54%) of children whose
   parents lack a high school diploma are living in a two-parent
   household, including 33% whose parents are in their first marriage.

Blended families

   One-in-six kids is living in a blended family According to the most
   recent data, 16% of children are living in what the Census Bureau terms
   “blended families” – a household with a stepparent, stepsibling or
   half-sibling. This share has remained stable since the early 1990s,
   when reliable data first became available. At that time 15% of kids
   lived in blended family households. All told, about 8% are living with
   a stepparent, and 12% are living with stepsiblings or half-siblings.^12

   Many, but not all, remarriages involve blended families.^13 According
   to data from the National Center for Health Statistics, six-in-ten
   (63%) women in remarriages are in blended families, and about half of
   these remarriages involve stepchildren who live with the remarried
   couple.

   Hispanic, black and white children are equally likely to live in a
   blended family. About 17% of Hispanic and black kids are living with a
   stepparent, stepsibling or a half-sibling, as are 15% of white kids.
   Among Asian children, however, 7% – a far smaller share – are living in
   blended families. This low share is consistent with the finding that
   Asian children are more likely than others to be living with two
   married parents, both of whom are in their first marriage.

The shrinking American family

   Among women, fertility is declining Fertility in the U.S. has been on
   the decline since the end of the post-World War II baby boom, resulting
   in smaller families. In the mid-1970s, a 40% plurality of mothers who
   had reached the end of their childbearing years had given birth to four
   or more children.^14 Now, a similar share (41%) of mothers at the end
   of their childbearing years has had two children, and just 14% have had
   four or more children.^15

   At the same time, the share of mothers ages 40 to 44 who have had only
   one child has doubled, from 11% in 1976 to 22% today. The share of
   mothers with three children has remained virtually unchanged at about a
   quarter.

   Women’s increasing educational attainment and labor force
   participation, and improvements in contraception, not to mention the
   retreat from marriage, have all likely played a role in shrinking
   family size.

   Among Hispanics and the less educated, bigger families Family size
   varies markedly across races and ethnicities. Asian moms have the
   lowest fertility, and Hispanic mothers have the highest. About 27% of
   Asian mothers and one-third of white mothers near the end of their
   childbearing years have had three or more children. Among black mothers
   at the end of their childbearing years, four-in-ten have had three or
   more children, as have fully half (50%) of Hispanic mothers.

   Similarly, a gap in fertility exists among women with different levels
   of educational attainment, despite recent increases in the fertility of
   highly educated women. For example, just 27% of mothers ages 40 to 44
   with a post-graduate degree such as a master’s, professional or
   doctorate degree have borne three or more children, as have 32% of
   those with a bachelor’s degree. Among mothers in the same age group
   with a high school diploma or some college, 38% have had three or more
   kids, while among moms who lack a high school diploma, the majority –
   55% – have had three or more children.

The rise of births to unmarried women and multi-partner fertility

   Not only are women having fewer children today, but they are having
   them under different circumstances than in the past. While at one time
   virtually all births occurred within marriage, these two life events
   are now far less intertwined. And while people were much more likely to
   “mate for life” in the past, today a sizable share have children with
   more than one partner – sometimes within marriage, and sometimes
   outside of it.

   Births to unmarried women

   The decoupling of marriage and childbearing In 1960, just 5% of all
   births occurred outside of marriage. By 1970, this share had doubled to
   11%, and by 2000 fully one-third of births occurred to unmarried women.
   Non-marital births continued to rise until the mid-2000s, when the
   share of births to unmarried women stabilized at around 40%.^16

   Not all babies born outside of a marriage are necessarily living with
   just one parent, however. The majority of these births now occur to
   women who are living with a romantic partner, according to analyses of
   the National Survey of Family Growth. In fact, over the past 20 years,
   virtually all of the growth in births outside of marriage has been
   driven by increases in births to cohabiting women.^17

   Researchers have found that, while marriages are less stable than they
   once were, they remain more stable than cohabiting unions. Past
   analysis indicates that about one-in-five children born within a
   marriage will experience the breakup of that marriage by age 9. In
   comparison, fully half of children born within a cohabiting union will
   experience the breakup of their parents by the same age. At the same
   time, children born into cohabiting unions are more likely than those
   born to single moms to someday live with two married parents. Estimates
   suggest that 66% will have done so by the time they are 12, compared
   with 45% of those who were born to unmarried non-cohabiting moms.

   The share of births occurring outside of marriage varies markedly
   across racial and ethnic groups. Among black women, 71% of births are
   now non-marital, as are about half (53%) of births to Hispanic women.
   In contrast, 29% of births to white women occur outside of a marriage.

   For the less educated, more births outside of marriage Racial
   differences in educational attainment explain some, but not all, of the
   differences in non-marital birth rates.

   New mothers who are college-educated are far more likely than less
   educated moms to be married. In 2014 just 11% of women with a college
   degree or more who had a baby in the prior year were unmarried. In
   comparison, this share was about four times as high (43%) for new
   mothers with some college but no college degree. About half (54%) of
   those with only a high school diploma were unmarried when they gave
   birth, as were about six-in-ten (59%) new mothers who lacked a high
   school diploma.

Multi-partner fertility

   Related to non-marital births is what researchers call “multi-partner
   fertility.” This measure reflects the share of people who have had
   biological children with more than one partner, either within or
   outside of marriage. The increase in divorces, separations, remarriages
   and serial cohabitations has likely contributed to an increase in
   multi-partner fertility. Estimates vary, given data limitations, but
   analysis of longitudinal data indicates that almost 20% of women near
   the end of their childbearing years have had children by more than one
   partner, as have about three-in-ten (28%) of those with two or more
   children. Research indicates that multi-partner fertility is
   particularly common among blacks, Hispanics, and the less educated.

Parents today: older and better educated

   While parents today are far less likely to be married than they were in
   the past, they are more likely to be older and to have more education.

   In 1970, the average new mother was 21 years old. Since that time, that
   age has risen to 26 years. The rise in maternal age has been driven
   largely by declines in teen births. Today, 7% of all births occur to
   women under the age of 20; as recently as 1990, the share was almost
   twice as high (13%).

   While age at first birth has increased across all major race and ethnic
   groups, substantial variation persists across these groups. The average
   first-time mom among whites is now 27 years old. The average age at
   first birth among blacks and Hispanics is quite a bit younger – 24
   years – driven in part by the prevalence of teen pregnancy in these
   groups. Just 5% of births to whites take place prior to age 20, while
   this share reaches 11% for non-Hispanic blacks and 10% for Hispanics.
   On the other end of the spectrum, fully 45% of births to whites are to
   women ages 30 or older, versus just 31% among blacks and 36% among
   Hispanics.

   Mothers today are also far better educated than they were in the past.
   While in 1960 just 18% of mothers with infants at home had any college
   experience, today that share stands at 67%. This trend is driven in
   large part by dramatic increases in educational attainment for all
   women. While about half (49%) of women ages 15 to 44 in 1960 lacked a
   high school diploma, today the largest share of women (61%) has at
   least some college experience, and just 19% lack a high school diploma.

Mothers moving into the workforce

   Among mothers, rising labor force participation In addition to the
   changes in family structure that have occurred over the past several
   decades, family life has been greatly affected by the movement of more
   and more mothers into the workforce. This increase in labor force
   participation is a continuation of a century-long trend; rates of labor
   force participation among married women, particularly married white
   women, have been on the rise since at least the turn of the 20th
   century. While the labor force participation rates of mothers have more
   or less leveled off since about 2000, they remain far higher than they
   were four decades ago.

   In 1975, the first year for which data on the labor force participation
   of mothers are available, less than half of mothers (47%) with children
   younger than 18 were in the labor force, and about a third of those
   with children younger than 3 years old were working outside of the
   home. Those numbers changed rapidly, and, by 2000, 73% of moms were in
   the labor force. Labor force participation today stands at 70% among
   all mothers of children younger than 18, and 64% of moms with
   preschool-aged children. About three-fourths of all employed moms are
   working full time.

   Among mothers with children younger than 18, blacks are the most likely
   to be in the labor force –about three-fourths are. In comparison, this
   share is 70% among white mothers. Some 64% of Asian mothers and 62% of
   Hispanic mother are in the workforce. The relatively high proportions
   of immigrants in these groups likely contribute to their lower labor
   force involvement – foreign-born moms are much less likely to be
   working than their U.S.-born counterparts.

   The more education a mother has, the more likely she is to be in the
   labor force. While about half (49%) of moms who lack a high school
   diploma are working, this share jumps to 65% for those with a high
   school diploma. Fully 75% of mothers with some college are working, as
   are 79% of those with a college degree or more.

   Along with their movement into the labor force, women, even more than
   men, have been attaining higher and higher levels of education. In
   fact, among married couples today, it is more common for the wife to
   have more education than the husband, a reversal of previous patterns.
   These changes, along with the increasing share of single-parent
   families, mean that more than ever, mothers are playing the role of
   breadwinner—often the primary breadwinner—within their families.

   In four-in-ten families, mom is the primary breadwinner Today, 40% of
   families with children under 18 at home include mothers who earn the
   majority of the family income.^18 This share is up from 11% in 1960 and
   34% in 2000. The bulk of these breadwinner moms—8.3 million—are either
   unmarried or are married and living apart from their spouse.^19 The
   remaining 4.9 million, who are married and living with their spouse,
   earn more than their husbands. While families with married breadwinner
   moms tend to have higher median incomes than married-parent families
   where the father earns more ($88,000 vs. $84,500), families headed by
   unmarried mothers have incomes far lower than unmarried father
   families. In 2014, the median annual income for unmarried mother
   families was just $24,000.

   Breadwinner moms are particularly common in black families, spurred by
   very high rates of single motherhood. About three-fourths (74%) of
   black moms are breadwinner moms. Most are unmarried or living apart
   from their spouse (61%), and the remainder (13%) earn more than their
   spouse. Among Hispanic moms, 44% are the primary breadwinner; 31% are
   unmarried, while 12% are married and making more than their husbands.
   For white mothers, 38% are the primary breadwinners—20% are unmarried
   moms, and 18% are married and have income higher than that of their
   spouses. Asian families are less likely to have a woman as the main
   breadwinner in their families, presumably due to their extremely low
   rates of single motherhood. Just 11% of Asian moms are unmarried. The
   share who earn more than their husbands—20%— is somewhat higher than
   for the other racial and ethnic groups.

   The flip side of the movement of mothers into the labor force has been
   a dramatic decline in the share of mothers who are now stay-at-home
   moms. Some 29% of all mothers living with children younger than 18 are
   at home with their children. This marks a modest increase since 1999,
   when 23% of moms were home with their children, but a long-term decline
   of about 20 percentage points since the late 1960s when about half of
   moms were at home.

   While the image of “stay-at-home mom” may conjure images of “Leave It
   to Beaver” or the highly affluent “opt-out mom”, the reality of
   stay-at-home motherhood today is quite different for a large share of
   families. In roughly three-in-ten of stay-at-home-mom families, either
   the father is not working or the mother is single or cohabiting. As
   such, stay-at-home mothers are generally less well off than working
   mothers in terms of education and income. Some 49% of stay-at-home
   mothers have at most a high-school diploma compared with 30% among
   working mothers. And the median household income for families with a
   stay-at-home mom and a full-time working dad was $55,000 in 2014,
   roughly half the median income for families in which both parents work
   full-time ($102,400).^20
    3. “Parent” here is used to mean an adult parental figure. Except as
       noted, throughout this chapter a parent may be the biological or
       adoptive parent, or the spouse or partner of a biological or
       adoptive parent (i.e., a stepparent). The marital status of the
       parents alone doesn’t reveal definitively what their relationship
       is to their children. For instance, if a child is living with two
       parents, both of whom are in their first marriage: it may be the
       case that both of those parents are the biological parents of that
       child; or it may be the case that the mother is the biological
       parent of that child and that she later entered into her first
       marriage to the child’s (now) stepfather; or it may be the case
       that the father is the biological parent of that child and that he
       entered into his first marriage to the child’s (now) stepmother. ↩
    4. Any marriage in which at least one of the partners has been married
       previously is defined as a remarriage. ↩
    5. While the divorce rate has risen since 1960, the trend in divorce
       since 1980 is less clear. Stevenson and Wolfers maintain that
       divorce rates have declined since that time, while Kennedy and
       Ruggles find that the divorce rate has continued its rise. ↩
    6. Among women, 73% of marriages that began in the late 1980s lasted
       for at least 10 years, compared with 87% of those that began in the
       late 1950s. ↩
    7. For the purposes of this report, same-sex couples are grouped with
       other-sex couples. While same-sex parenting and marriage has become
       more prevalent, estimates suggest that less than 1% of couple
       households with children are headed by same-sex couples; and that,
       in total, fewer than 130,000 same-sex couples are currently raising
       children younger than 18. See here for more on the challenges of
       counting same-sex couples in the U.S. ↩
    8. Data on the share of parents in their first marriage are not
       available for 1990 or 2000. ↩
    9. In 2014, 83% of children living with only one parent were living
       with their mother, according to the American Community Survey. ↩
   10. The dramatic changes in kids’ living arrangements in the recent
       past are in sharp contrast to historical trends, which reveal
       remarkable stability. From 1880 to around 1970, the share of
       children living with two parents consistently hovered around 85%,
       while the share living with a single mother remained in the single
       digits. Even smaller shares were living with no parent, or with a
       father only. ↩
   11. Parental education is based on the highest educational attainment
       of coresident parents. So if a child lives with both parents, and
       the father has a bachelor’s degree, and the mother has a high
       school diploma, that child is classified as having a parent with a
       bachelor’s degree. A child living with a single parent is
       classified based on that parent’s education. The 5% of children who
       are not living with their parents are excluded from this analysis.
       ↩
   12. These data are based on self-reports. It may be the case that some
       families that began as stepfamilies may no longer identify as such,
       if the stepparent went on to adopt the children. And, of course,
       many families may be “blended” but may not include parents who are
       formally married; those families are likely not captured in this
       measure. ↩
   13. While blended families all involve remarriage, not all remarriages
       produce blended families. Remarriages involving spouses who have no
       children from prior relationships would not create blended
       families. ↩
   14. Women at the end of their childbearing years are often defined as
       those ages 40-44. While it is still possible to have children
       beyond this point, about 99.8% of babies are born to women younger
       than 45, and 97% are born to women younger than 40. Women who
       reached the end of their childbearing years in the mid-1970s came
       of age during the height of the post-World War II baby boom, a
       period typified by unusually high fertility. ↩
   15. While they are not included in this analysis due to data
       limitations, many women who do not bear children are indeed
       mothers—either adoptive mothers or stepmothers. ↩
   16. Preliminary 2014 data indicate that the share of non-marital births
       declined slightly for the first time in almost 20 years, due
       largely to changes in age composition among childbearing-aged
       women. ↩
   17. Given the limitations of data regarding the fertility of men, the
       focus here is on fertility of women. ↩
   18. Only families where the mother or father is the household head are
       included in the analysis of breadwinner moms. ↩
   19. For the remainder of this chapter, “unmarried mothers” refers to
       those who are not married, or who are married but living apart from
       their spouse. ↩
   20. The vast majority of stay-at-home parents are indeed mothers, but a
       growing share of fathers are joining the ranks, as well. In 2012,
       16% of stay-at-home parents were dads, up from 10% in 1989. Like
       stay-at-home mothers, stay-at-home dads tend to be less well off
       than their working counterparts; they are far more likely to lack a
       high school diploma (22% vs. 10%), and far more likely to be living
       in poverty (47% vs. 8%). ↩

Pagination

   Next: 2. Satisfaction, time and support Next Page → ← Prev Page
    1. Page 1
    2. You are reading page 2
    3. Page 3
    4. Page 4
    5. Page 5
    6. Page 6
    7. Page 7
    8. Page 8

Report Materials

     * Complete Report PDF
     * Topline
     * Survey of American Parents Dataset

Table of Contents

     * Parenting in America
     * 1. The American family today
          + The growing complexity and diversity of families
          + Mothers moving into the workforce
     * 2. Satisfaction, time and support
     * 3. Parenting approaches and concerns
     * 4. Child care and education: quality, availability and parental
       involvement
     * 5. Children's extracurricular activities
     * Acknowledgments
     * Methodology

Related

   Multi-section ReportsJan 11, 2017

Behind the Badge

   Multi-section ReportsOct 26, 2016

Births Outside of Marriage Decline for Immigrant Women

   Multi-section ReportsOct 6, 2016

The State of American Jobs

   Multi-section ReportsSep 29, 2016

The Racial Confidence Gap in Police Performance

   PublicationsAug 15, 2016

Social Media Conversations About Race

Topics

     * Race and Ethnicity
     * Family and Relationships
     * Household and Family Structure
     * Parenthood
     * Socioeconomic Class

Popular on Pew Research

   Fact Tank Jan. 17, 2017

Obama averaged fewest executive orders since Cleveland

   Fact Tank May. 11, 2016

Are you in the U.S. middle class? Find out with our income calculator

   Fact Tank Nov. 19, 2016

Behind Trump's victory: Divisions by race, gender and education

   Internet & Tech Nov. 11, 2016

Demographics of Social Media Users in 2016

   Fact Tank Nov. 3, 2016

5 facts about illegal immigration in the U.S.

   Get Pew Research Center data by email ____________________ Signup

   Pew Research Center 1615 L Street, NW, Suite 800 Washington, DC 20036
   202.419.4300 | Main 202.419.4349 | Fax 202.419.4372 | Media Inquiries

Research Areas

     * U.S. Politics & Policy
     * Journalism & Media
     * Internet, Science & Tech
     * Religion & Public Life
     * Hispanic Trends
     * Global Attitudes & Trends
     * Social & Demographic Trends

Follow Us

     * Email Newsletters
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Tumblr
     * YouTube
     * Google+
     * RSS

   About Pew Research Center Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan fact
   tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends
   shaping America and the world. It conducts public opinion polling,
   demographic research, media content analysis and other empirical social
   science research. Pew Research Center does not take policy positions.
   It is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts.

     * Copyright 2017 Pew Research Center
     * About
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Privacy Policy
     * Reprints, Permissions & Use Policy
     * Feedback
     * Careers
