   The Telegraph
   (BUTTON)
     * Premium
     * News
     * Sport
     * Business
     * Money
     * Opinion
     * Obituaries
     * Travel
     * Tech & Science
     * Culture
     * Film
     * TV
     * Lifestyle
     * Fashion
     * Luxury
     * Cars
     * Video

     * Free Mobile App
     * Jobs
     * Financial Services
     * Rewards
     * Events
     * Dating
     * Offers
     * Shop
     * Garden Shop
     * Bookshop
     * Box Office
     * Puzzles
     * Fantasy Football
     * Wine Shop
     * Work at The Telegraph

     * Log out
     * My Account
     * Subscribe
     * Rewards
     * Video

     * Login
     * Register
     * Subscribe
     * Rewards
     * Video

     * Log out
     * Rewards
     * My Account
     * Video

   The Telegraph
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Business

   (BUTTON) ALL SECTIONS
     * News

     * UK
     * World
     * Politics
     * Science
     * Entertainment
     * Pictures
     * Investigations
     * Brexit

   (BUTTON) More
     * Telegraph
     * News

Single men will get the right to start a family under new definition of
infertility

   Man with son  Single men and women without medical issues will be
   classed as “infertile” if they do not have children but want them
   Credit: Alamy / Juice Images
     * Henry Bodkin

   20 October 2016 • 12:48am

   Single men and women without medical issues will be classed as
   “infertile” if they do not have children but want to become a parent,
   the World Health Organisation is to announce.

   In a move which dramatically changes the definition of infertility, the
   WHO will declare that it should no longer be regarded as simply a
   medical condition.

   The authors of the new global standards said the revised definition
   gave every individual “the right to reproduce”.

   Until now, the WHO’s definition of infertility – which it classes as a
   disability – has been the failure to achieve pregnancy after 12 months
   or more of regular unprotected sex.
   Pregnant woman
   The inability to find a partner to have a baby with could be considered
   a disability Credit:  Katie Collins/PA

   But the new standard suggests that the inability to find a suitable
   sexual partner – or the lack of sexual relationships which could
   achieve conception – could be considered an equal disability.

   The World Health Organisation sets global health standards and its
   ruling  is likely to place pressure on the NHS to change its policy on
   who can access IVF treatment.

   Legal experts said the new definition, which will be sent out to every
   health minister next year, may force a law change, allowing the
   introduction of commercial surrogacy.

   However the ruling is also likely to lead to accusations that that the
   body  has overstepped its remit by moving from its remit of health into
   matters  of social affairs.
   "It puts a stake in the ground and says an individual's got a right to
   reproduce whether or not they have a partner"Dr David Adamson

   Under the new terms, heterosexual single men and women, and gay men
   and  women who want to have children would be given the same priority
   as couples seeking IVF because of medical fertility problems.

   Dr David Adamson, one of the authors of the new standards, said: “The
   definition of infertility is now written in such a way that it includes
   the rights of all individuals to have a family, and that includes
   single men, single women, gay men, gay women.

   "It puts a stake in the ground and says an individual's got a right to
   reproduce whether or not they have a partner. It's a big change.

   "It fundamentally alters who should be included in this group and who
   should  have access to healthcare. It sets an international legal
   standard.  Countries are bound by it."
   IVF
   The definition could have an impact on IVF provision Credit: Sebastian
   Kaulitzki/Getty

   Critics last night called the decision “absurd nonsense” as they raised
   concerns that couples with medical infertility could lose the chance
   for a child if NHS authorities rewrite their rules.

   Under current NHS policies, fertility treatment is only funded for
   those  proven infertile, and those where fertility is unexplained but
   attempts at conception have failed.

   Guidance from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
   (Nice) says women under the age of  42 should be offered three full
   cycles of IVF, with access for same-sex  couples if surrogacy or
   privately funded fertility treatment fails.

   But few areas achieve this, with rationing deepening across the NHS
   amid  financial pressures. Last month figures from the charity
   Fertility Fairness  showed the real provision of free IVF on the NHS is
   at its lowest since 2004.
   "I think it’s trying to put IVF into a box that it doesn’t fit into
   frankly"Gareth Johnson MP

   The new definitions drawn up by WHO’s international committee
   monitoring  assisted reproductive technology will be sent to every
   health minister for  consideration next year.

   Gareth Johnson MP, former chair of the All Parliamentary Group on
   Infertility, whose own children were born thanks to fertility
   treatment  said: “I’m in general a supporter of IVF. But I’ve never
   regarded  infertility as a disability or a disease but rather a medical
   matter.

   “I’m the first to say you should have more availability of IVF to
   infertile  couples but we need to ensure this whole subject retains
   credibility.

   “This definition runs the risk of undermining the work Nice and others
   have  done to ensure IVF treatment is made available for infertile
   couples when  you get definitions off the mark like this. I think it’s
   trying to put IVF into a box that it doesn’t fit into  frankly.”

    Jonathan Montgomery, Professor of Health Care Law at University
   College  London, said the health service would be forced to review its
   policies in  light of the new standards.
   NHS
   The Department for Health said it would consider the WHO’s final advice
   when published but the NHS was under no obligation to follow it Credit:
   Dominic Lipinski/PA

   However, he said it was unlikely that the NHS would adopt the WHO
   standards  wholesale.  The legal expert said there could be other
   consequences to altering the  definition of infertility.

   In the UK, it is illegal to pay surrogates, resulting in a severe
   shortage  of women wanting to take on the role.  Similarly, there is a
   national shortage of sperm and eggs, with donors only  able to receive
   expenses.

   “Because wanting to have children would be defined as a disability, it
   could well strengthen the case of gay couples to be allowed access to
   commercial surrogates,” he said.

   “This might force the UK to think again about surrogacy.”
   Sperm and egg
   There is a national shortage of donor sperm and eggs Credit: Dr Dennis
   Kunkel

   Josephine Quintavalle,from Comment on Reproductive Ethics said: “This
   absurd nonsense is not simply re-defining infertility but completely
   side-lining the biological process and significance of natural
   intercourse  between a man and a woman.

   “How long before babies are created and grown on request completely in
   the  lab?”

   A Department of Health spokesman said it would consider the WHO’s final
   advice when published but the NHS was under no obligation to follow
   it.

   The controversy broke as the American Society for Reproductive
   Medicine  annual congress heard that the 10 millionth IVF baby would be
   born by the  end of 2020.

   Official figures estimate that by 2013 6.5 million had been born using
   the  technique since the first IVF birth in 1978.
   What if IVF doesn’t work?
   Follow Telegraph News

READ MORE ABOUT:

     * Fertility
     * Health
     * Pregnancy
     * NHS
     * Family
     * Show more

   IFRAME: http://widgethost.barnebys.com/widget/telegraph/9/int/

News latest

    1. Live
       Live: Watch live: MPs quiz Fox, Salmond on Brexit.
       24 Jan 2017, 1:01pm

       Live
       Brexit judgment live: Supreme Court rules against Theresa May on
       Article 50 by a majority of 8 to 3
    2. Commuters wait for trains at Clapham Junction during a tube strike
       in London, Britain January 9, 2017
       24 Jan 2017, 12:56pm

Comment: The unions must not hold passengers to ransom – so I'm taking action
to stop their vindictive strikes
       Chris Philp
    3. More than 3,000 guns were intercepted at US airports last year,
       most of them loaded
       24 Jan 2017, 12:51pm

2,815 Americans tried to board a plane with a loaded gun last year
    4. Nicola Sturgeon
       24 Jan 2017, 12:41pm

Nicola Sturgeon to thwart Brexit with 50 amendments as SNP pushes for new
Scottish independence referendum
    5. 03:55
       24 Jan 2017, 12:02pm

Brexit ruling: The Supreme Court judgment in full
    6. Pearl: Albino white alligator Gatorland florida
       24 Jan 2017, 11:47am

Meet Pearl: The amazing alligator with incredibly rare white skin
    7. Baby pandas Dashuang and Xiaoshuang appeared for the first time at
       the Chongqing zoo in Chongqing, southwest China
       24 Jan 2017, 11:34am

Panda twins make debut at China zoo
    8. The robbery of Kim Kardashian last year has had an unsettling
       effect on the luxury sector
       24 Jan 2017, 11:31am

Paris deploys soldiers to protect mega-rich tourists
    9. A demonstrator waves a European Union flag outside the Supreme
       Court in London, U.K., on Tuesday, Jan. 24, 2017
       24 Jan 2017, 11:26am

Majority of Britons disagree with Supreme Court ruling on Article 50
   10. Supreme Court
       24 Jan 2017, 11:20am

Comment: The Supreme Court's Article 50 ruling gives Theresa May the perfect
opportunity to clobber Jeremy Corbyn
       James Kirkup
       Premium
       James Kirkup
   11. 02:12
       Ewan McGregor pulls out of GMB due to Piers Morgan comments
       24 Jan 2017, 11:04am

Ewan McGregor snubs Good Morning Britain due to Piers Morgan comments on the
Women’s March
   12. Gina Miller in front of the Supreme Court
       24 Jan 2017, 10:52am

Comment: Gina Miller: We Remainers have won in the Supreme Court. Now we
demand a proper examination of Brexit in Parliament
       Gina Miller and Ivo Ilic Gabara
       Premium
   13. Italy Avalanche
       Gallery
       24 Jan 2017, 10:46am

Gallery: Pictures of the day: 24 January 2017
   14. 11,600 Post Office branches will now offer services on behalf of
       banks - potentially allowing banks to close more of their own
       branches
       24 Jan 2017, 10:44am

Post Office steps in to replace closed bank branches
   15. Protesters outside the Supreme Court, where the Government appealed
       against a ruling that the Prime Minister must seek MPs' approval to
       trigger Article 50
       24 Jan 2017, 10:37am

Even Remainers think May's deal respects the referendum result, and five
other charts explaining what Britons want from Brexit
   16. 01:03
       24 Jan 2017, 10:29am

What is Article 50? The only explanation you need to read
   17. This little girl was one of four children rescued from the smashed
       remains of the Hotel Rigopiano. All children have been accounted
       for but up to 23 adults are still missing.
       24 Jan 2017, 10:26am

Death toll from Italy's hotel avalanche rises to 14, as prosecutors study
email that begged for help hours before disaster struck
   18. A demonstrator waves a European Union flag outside the Supreme
       Court
       24 Jan 2017, 10:25am

Supreme Court rules against Government - Parliament to be given vote on
Brexit
   19. A protestor holds a sign disrupting a pro-EU demonstration outside
       the Royal Courts of Justice, in London, U.K., on Monday, Oct. 17,
       2016.
       24 Jan 2017, 10:22am

Comment: If Theresa May wants to get Article 50 through Parliament, most
British people are behind her
       Asa Bennett
       Premium
       Asa Bennett
   20. 01:03
       24 Jan 2017, 10:12am

Article 50 ruling: What does it mean for Brexit - and what happens next?
   21. 24 Jan 2017, 10:11am

China fortifies its Great Firewall with crackdown on VPNs - after Xi Jinping
called for “global connectivity”

   If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
   Register Log in
     * Contact us
     * Rewards
     * Archive
     * Reader Prints
     * Advertising
     * Syndication
     * Guidelines
     * Privacy
     * Terms and Conditions
     * Leave your feedback

   © Telegraph Media Group Limited 2017
   Matt Ad Blocker Message

Your support makes a big difference

   In order to bring you award-winning content and investigative
   journalism from your favourite writers, we rely on revenue generated by
   advertising.

   Please consider supporting us by turning off your ad blocker.
   Just a couple of clicks will make a big difference.

   Thank you.

   Need help?

   Click here for instructions
   (BUTTON) Close
