   [p?c1=2&c2=11464276&cv=2.0&cj=1]
   [tr?id=1586530151593576&ev=PageView&noscript=1]

   ADVOCATE
     * Politics
     * Business
     * A&E
     * Transgender
     * Bisexuality
     * Religion
     * Families
     * HIV/AIDS
     * Commentary

     * Out
     * Pride
     * Out Traveler
     * Plus
     * Here TV

     * Subscribe
     * Subscriber Services
     * Email Newsletter Signup

     * Contact
     * Staff
     * Career Opportunities
     * Advertise With Us
     * Privacy Policy
     * User Agreement
     * Community Guidelines
     * Legal Notice

     * © 2017 Here Media Inc.
       All Rights Reserved

   Advocate Feb - March 2017
   Subscribe To
   The Advocate
   Print > Digital >
   Give a gift • Renew
   (BUTTON)
   ADVOCATE ADVOCATE
     * Search

Search form
       Search _______________
       Search
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Instagram
     * Tumblr
     * Mail

     * Editor's Pick
     * Donald Trump
     * Race
     * Feminism
     * The Resistance
     * Health
     * Trans

   why-womens-march-was-therapy
   Commentary
   The Women's March Was Therapy
   Photos of Gay Life Spanning Five Decades
   Photography
   Photos of Gay Life Spanning Five Decades
   Why I almost marched
   Arts & Entertainment
   Why I Almost Sat Out the Women’s March
   Meet The Pride, an entire team of queer superheroes!
   Books
   Meet 'The Pride,' an Entire Team of Queer Superheroes
   Sean Spicer
   Politics
   Trump Spokesman: Fate of LGBT Nondiscrimination Order Uncertain
   WHY WE MARCHED
   Politics
   Why We Marched (Video)
   Commentary

   At Work, Fighting for a Broad Definition of Family
   Broad Definition of Family

   The federal government just made it easier for certain workers to get
   paid sick time to care for their partners and nonblood relatives.
   By Preston Van Vliet
   April 08 2016 6:12 AM EDT
   Share on Twitter
   Share on Facebook

   The U.S. Department of Labor did a pretty amazing thing recently with
   proposed rules that would guarantee employees of federal contractors
   the right to earn up to seven days of paid sick time. The rules would
   not only let workers use this time to care for themselves and their
   families but also recognize that families do not fit one mold. Covered
   workers could use their paid sick time to care for loved ones with whom
   they have such a close relationship that they are equivalent to family
   — even absent a blood relationship. In an age when our families take
   many forms, including multigenerational families, extended families,
   single-parent families, LGBTQ families, and “chosen” families, this
   language is especially meaningful.

   Forty percent of American workers lack even a single paid sick day, and
   workers who do earn sick time may be unable to use it to care for a
   spouse, partner, or child — let alone extended relatives and chosen
   family. Advocates have been fighting throughout the country to pass
   laws that ensure all workers will have paid sick time to use for
   themselves or loved ones. But limits on the definition of family mean
   many workers will not be able to take care of those who depend on them.
   Such limits are particularly troubling when nearly 80 percent of
   households in the U.S. do not fit the “nuclear family” model of a
   married mom and dad and their children.

   Our families are made up of more than just biological or legal
   relations: They are loved ones who are there through our struggles;
   they provide care when we need it; they rely on us for support and they
   share in our joys.

   Families most affected by narrow family definitions often work in jobs
   that pay low wages and provide few benefits, come from communities of
   color and immigrant communities, and include disabled individuals. This
   results in further marginalization and isolation of these communities,
   where systemic exclusion through policies, the specific enforcement of
   policies, and lack of secure, inclusive safety net programs perpetuate
   a culture that forces these communities to fend for themselves in
   whatever ways they can in order to just survive.

   I’m a Michigander, born and raised, and I never thought I was going to
   leave. But when the love of my life moved across the country to find a
   better quality of life — because, let’s face it, it’s difficult being
   both low-income and LGBTQ in Michigan — my plans changed. We now reside
   in Washington, D.C., a welcoming activist community. D.C. is also a
   place where I can have access to medically necessary transgender health
   care without having to pay tens of thousands of dollars out of pocket
   as I would have in Michigan. My biological family members — the
   individuals most typically defined as “family” in paid leave laws and
   policies — are now hundreds of miles away from me. My family in D.C.
   consists of my partner, a close trans community, and — serendipitously
   — my childhood best friend. If something serious happened to me or my
   partner, we would rely on this chosen family to help us survive.

   Not only are current public paid leave policies insufficient, but we’re
   now seeing more and more legislation that would let businesses actively
   deny services and benefits to families based on their beliefs about
   what families should look like. They are in line with the religious
   exemption bills that have been popping up in states across the country
   — they leave LGBTQ families vulnerable to discrimination and could
   result in the denial of essential paid leave benefits to many
   individuals and families.

   Despite these setbacks, there is enormous progress to celebrate. As a
   national organizer with A Better Balance and Family Values @ Work, I am
   fortunate to work with inspiring coalitions and advocates around the
   country to improve the lives of all families — not just the
   “traditional” ones.

   It wasn’t until I began my current job that I fully appreciated how
   laws and policies could be drafted to both recognize and provide
   support to my chosen family. I am proud to be part of a growing effort
   across the country to raise awareness — among policy makers, business
   owners, and community members — about the need for a broad definition
   of family. Coalitions from D.C. to Michigan and beyond are fighting for
   these essential changes as part of a national movement.

   We are in a pivotal moment to change how decision-makers at the local,
   state, and federal levels understand what families really look like.
   Although the Supreme Court decision on marriage equality represented
   significant progress, marriage does not define or address the needs of
   many families. The administration’s proposed rule for paid sick days
   for federal contractors is a great step forward. Together, we must
   defeat these pernicious religious exemption bills and make sure that
   our families — whatever form they take — are protected by public
   policies. Only then will we achieve equality and workplace justice.

   pvv
   PRESTON VAN VLIET is the national campaign organizer with A Better
   Balance and Family Values @ Work.
   Tags: Commentary

Latest videos on Advocate

READER COMMENTS ()

   Most Popular on Advocate
   Buttercream Bakery
   Business
   Bakery Donates Profits From Trump's Plagiarized Cake to LGBT Group
   ACA HIV
   Commentary
   How the ACA Repeal Will Impact HIV-Positive People
   16 Steamy LGBT Soap Scenes
   television
   The 16 Steamiest Gay Sex Scenes in Soap Operas
   Photos of Gay Life Spanning Five Decades
   Photography
   Photos of Gay Life Spanning Five Decades
   Sean Spicer
   Politics
   Trump Spokesman: Fate of LGBT Nondiscrimination Order Uncertain
   The Advocate Octber 2016

Latest News

   why-womens-march-was-therapy
   Commentary
   The Women's March Was Therapy
   1 hour 41 min ago
   Share on Twitter
   Share on Facebook
   Photos of Gay Life Spanning Five Decades
   Photography
   Photos of Gay Life Spanning Five Decades
   1 hour 55 min ago
   Share on Twitter
   Share on Facebook
   Meet The Pride, an entire team of queer superheroes!
   Books
   Meet 'The Pride,' an Entire Team of Queer Superheroes
   2 hours 31 min ago
   Share on Twitter
   Share on Facebook
   Why I almost marched
   Arts & Entertainment
   Why I Almost Sat Out the Women’s March
   2 hours 56 min ago
   Share on Twitter
   Share on Facebook
   State Department
   Media
   State Dept.'s Lavender Scare Apology Removed From Website
   January 23 2017 7:15 PM
   Share on Twitter
   Share on Facebook
   Those with mental illness are being missed by HIV testing
   Plus
   People With Mental Illness Are Being Ignored by HIV Testers
   January 23 2017 5:23 PM
   Share on Twitter
   Share on Facebook
   Sean Spicer
   Politics
   Trump Spokesman: Fate of LGBT Nondiscrimination Order Uncertain
   January 23 2017 5:02 PM
   Share on Twitter
   Share on Facebook
   1

   Quantcast
