   #Dictionary.com publisher

   [p?c1=2&c2=6034776&cv=2.0&cj=1]

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TXC5GP

     * Dictionary.com
     *
          + Word of the Day
          + Translate
          + Games
          + Blog
     * Thesaurus.com
     * Favorites

   (BUTTON)

     * Dictionary.com
     * Thesaurus.com

     * My Account
     * Log Out
     * Log In

   Try Our Apps

   Dictionary.com
   definitions
   family______________ (BUTTON)
     * definitions
     * synonyms
     * translations

     *
     * Follow @dictionarycom
     *
     *

   follow Dictionary.com

   NFL Quiz: The Final Four
   (BUTTON)

     * (BUTTON) Favorite Button
     * CITE
     * Translate
     * Facebook
       Share
     * Twitter
       Tweet
     * Google+
       Share

family

   [fam-uh-lee, fam-lee] /ˈfæm ə li, ˈfæm li/
   (BUTTON) Spell (BUTTON) Syllables
     * Examples
     * Word Origin

   See more synonyms on Thesaurus.com
   noun, plural families.
   1.
    1. a basic social unit consisting of parents and their children,
       considered as a group, whether dwelling together or not:
       the traditional family.
    2. a social unit consisting of one or more adults together with the
       children they care for:
       a single-parent family.

   2.
   the children of one person or one couple collectively:
   We want a large family.
   3.
   the spouse and children of one person:
   We're taking the family on vacation next week.
   4.
   any group of persons closely related by blood, as parents, children,
   uncles, aunts, and cousins:
   to marry into a socially prominent family.
   5.
   all those persons considered as descendants of a common progenitor.
   6.
   Chiefly British. approved lineage, especially noble, titled, famous, or
   wealthy ancestry:
   young men of family.
   7.
   a group of persons who form a household under one head, including
   parents, children, and servants.
   8.
   the staff, or body of assistants, of an official:
   the office family.
   9.
   a group of related things or people:
   the family of romantic poets; the halogen family of elements.
   10.
   a group of people who are generally not blood relations but who share
   common attitudes, interests, or goals and, frequently, live together:
   Many hippie communes of the sixties regarded themselves as families.
   11.
   a group of products or product models made by the same manufacturer or
   producer.
   12.
   Biology. the usual major subdivision of an order or suborder in the
   classification of plants, animals, fungi, etc., usually consisting of
   several genera.
   13.
   Slang. a unit of the Mafia or Cosa Nostra operating in one area under a
   local leader.
   14.
   Linguistics. the largest category into which languages related by
   common origin can be classified with certainty:
   Indo-European, Sino-Tibetan, and Austronesian are the most widely
   spoken families of languages.
   Compare stock (def 12), subfamily (def 2).
   15.
   Mathematics.
    1. a given class of solutions of the same basic equation, differing
       from one another only by the different values assigned to the
       constants in the equation.
    2. a class of functions or the like defined by an expression
       containing a parameter.
    3. a set.

   adjective
   16.
   of, relating to, or characteristic of a family:
   a family trait.
   17.
   belonging to or used by a family:
   a family automobile; a family room.
   18.
   suitable or appropriate for adults and children:
   a family amusement park.
   19.
   not containing obscene language:
   a family newspaper.
   Idioms
   20.
   in a / the family way, pregnant.
   Origin of family (BUTTON) Expand
   Middle English
   Latin
   1350-1400
   1350-1400; Middle English familie < Latin familia a household, the
   slaves of a household, equivalent to famul(us) servant, slave + -ia
   -y^3
   Related forms (BUTTON) Expand
   antifamily, adjective
   interfamily, adjective
   Usage note (BUTTON) Expand
   See collective noun.
   Dictionary.com Unabridged
   Based on the Random House Dictionary, © Random House, Inc. 2017.
   Cite This Source
   Examples from the Web for family (BUTTON) Expand
   Contemporary Examples
     * I made an arrangement to live in temporary housing, I lived apart
       from my family for seven weeks.
       The Reality Behind Up in the Air Nicole LaPorte January 30, 2010
     * He also hid a Jewish family in his cellar and saved their lives.
       This Week’s Hot Reads: June 18, 2012 Jimmy So June 17, 2012
     * The McCormack family put the place up for sale eight years later.
       New York’s Oldest Bar Stays Afloat Michael Daly October 28, 2013
     * Neither he nor any of his family will talk on the record or discuss
       the case.
       Inside D.C.’s Socialite Murder Sandra McElwaine September 7, 2011
     * But the family remained tight-knit, and the kids frequently visited
       their father on set when he made films like Apocalypse Now.
       Will Sheen's Family Save Him? Jacob Bernstein, Nicole LaPorte
       October 27, 2010

   Historical Examples
     * The women would be more closely bound to the family than the men.
       The Truth About Woman C. Gasquoine Hartley
     * Pen and I would have raised a family and I'd have had no time to
       think of you.
       Still Jim Honor Willsie Morrow
     * A tumbler had no business with a family, but what was a man going
       to do?
       The Hoofer Walter M. Miller
     * They put him to shame with the nation and in the privacy of his own
       family.
       Still Jim Honor Willsie Morrow
     * After a death the friends of the family should call in person
       inside of a month.
       The Etiquette of To-day Edith B. Ordway

   British Dictionary definitions for family (BUTTON) Expand

family

   /ˈfæmɪlɪ; ˈfæmlɪ/
   noun (pl) -lies
   1.
    1. a primary social group consisting of parents and their offspring,
       the principal function of which is provision for its members
    2. (as modifier): family quarrels, a family unit

   2.
   one's wife or husband and one's children
   3.
   one's children, as distinguished from one's husband or wife
   4.
   a group of persons related by blood; a group descended from a common
   ancestor Compare extended family
   5.
   all the persons living together in one household
   6.
   any group of related things or beings, esp when scientifically
   categorized
   7.
   (biology) any of the taxonomic groups into which an order is divided
   and which contains one or more genera. Felidae (cat family) and Canidae
   (dog family) are two families of the order Carnivora
   8.
   (ecology) a group of organisms of the same species living together in a
   community
   9.
   a group of historically related languages assumed to derive from one
   original language
   10.
   (mainly US) an independent local group of the Mafia
   11.
   (maths) a group of curves or surfaces whose equations differ from a
   given equation only in the values assigned to one or more constants in
   each curve: a family of concentric circles
   12.
   (physics) the isotopes, collectively, that comprise a radioactive
   series
   13.
   (informal) in the family way, pregnant
   Word Origin
   C15: from Latin familia a household, servants of the house, from
   famulus servant
   Collins English Dictionary - Complete & Unabridged 2012 Digital Edition
   © William Collins Sons & Co. Ltd. 1979, 1986 © HarperCollins
   Publishers 1998, 2000, 2003, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2012
   Cite This Source
   Word Origin and History for family (BUTTON) Expand
   n.

   early 15c., "servants of a household," from Latin familia "family
   servants, domestics collectively, the servants in a household," thus
   also "members of a household, the estate, property; the household,
   including relatives and servants," from famulus "servant," of unknown
   origin. The Latin word rarely appears in the sense "parents with their
   children," for which domus (see domestic) was used.
   In English, sense of "collective body of persons who form one household
   under one head and one domestic government, including parents,
   children, and servants, and as sometimes used even lodgers or boarders"
   [Century Dictionary] is from 1540s. From 1660s as "parents with their
   children, whether they dwell together or not," also in a more general
   sense, "persons closely related by blood, including aunts, uncles,
   cousins;" and in the most general sense "those who descend from a
   common progenitor" (1580s). Meaning "those claiming descent from a
   common ancestor, a house, a lineage" is early 15c. Hence, "any group of
   things classed as kindred based on common distinguishing
   characteristics" (1620s); as a scientific classification, between genus
   and order, from 1753.

     I have certainly known more men destroyed by the desire to have wife
     and child and to keep them in comfort than I have seen destroyed by
     drink and harlots. [William Butler Yeats, "Autobiography"]

   Replaced Old English hiwscipe. As an adjective from c.1600; with the
   meaning "suitable for a family," by 1807. Family values first recorded
   1966. Phrase in a family way "pregnant" is from 1796. Family circle is
   1809; family man "man devoted to wife and children, man inclined to
   lead a domestic life" is 1856 (earlier it meant "thief," 1788, from
   family in a slang sense of "the fraternity of thieves").

     Happy family an assemblage of animals of diverse habits and
     propensities living amicably, or at least quietly, together in one
     cage. [Century Dictionary, 1902]

   The phrase is attested from 1844.
   Online Etymology Dictionary, © 2010 Douglas Harper
   Cite This Source
   family in Medicine (BUTTON) Expand

   family fam·i·ly (fām'ə-lē, fām'lē)
   n.
    1. A group of blood relatives, especially parents and their children.
    2. A taxonomic category of related organisms ranking below an order
       and above a genus.

   The American Heritage® Stedman's Medical Dictionary
   Copyright © 2002, 2001, 1995 by Houghton Mifflin Company. Published by
   Houghton Mifflin Company.
   Cite This Source
   family in Science (BUTTON) Expand
   family
     (fām'ə-lē)
   A group of organisms ranking above a genus and below an order. The
   names of families end in -ae, a plural ending in Latin. In the animal
   kingdom, family names end in -idae, as in Canidae (dogs and their kin),
   while those in the plant kingdom usually end in -aceae, as in Rosaceae
   (roses and their kin). See Table at taxonomy.
   The American Heritage® Science Dictionary
   Copyright © 2002. Published by Houghton Mifflin. All rights reserved.
   Cite This Source
   family in Culture (BUTTON) Expand

family definition

   In biology, the classification lower than an order and higher than a
   genus. Lions, tigers, cheetahs, and house cats belong to the same
   biological family. Human beings belong to the biological family of
   hominids. (See Linnean classification.)
   The American Heritage® New Dictionary of Cultural Literacy, Third
   Edition
   Copyright © 2005 by Houghton Mifflin Company.
   Published by Houghton Mifflin Company. All rights reserved.
   Cite This Source
   Idioms and Phrases with family (BUTTON) Expand

family

   see:
     * in a family way
     * run in the blood (family)

   The American Heritage® Idioms Dictionary
   Copyright © 2002, 2001, 1995 by Houghton Mifflin Company. Published by
   Houghton Mifflin Company.
   Cite This Source

Word of the Day

Difficulty index for family

   All English speakers likely know this word

Word Value for family

   14
   15
   Scrabble Words With Friends

Related Words

     * first family
     * patria potestas
     * alto
     * bombacaceous
     * brassicaceous
     * chenopodiaceous

Nearby words for family

     * families
     * familism
     * familist
     * familistic
     * famille
     * family
     * family allowance
     * family and medical leave act of 1993
     * family balancing
     * family bible
     * family circle

   Super Bowl
     * About
     * Terms & Privacy

   © 2017 Dictionary.com, LLC.
   Quantcast
