<T=1-1.txt>
   In the context of human society, a family (from Latin: familia) is a
   group of people affiliated either by consanguinity (by recognized
   birth), affinity (by marriage or any other relation ship like siblings
   families etc..), or co-residence (as implied by the etymology of the
   English word "family") or some combination of these. Members of the
   immediate family include spouses, parents, brothers, sisters, sons,
   and/or daughters. Members of the extended family may include
   grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins, nephews, nieces, and/or
   siblings-in-law. Sometimes these are also considered members of the
   immediate family, depending on an individual's specific relationship
   with them.
   In most societies, the family is the principal institution for the
   socialization of children. As the basic unit for raising children,
   anthropologists generally classify most family organization as
   matrifocal (a mother and her children); conjugal (a husband, his wife,
   and children, also called the nuclear family); avuncular (for example,
   a grandparent, a brother, his sister, and her children); or extended
   (parents and children co-reside with other members of one parent's
   family). Sexual relations among the members are regulated by rules
   concerning incest such as the incest taboo.
   The word "family" can be used metaphorically to create more inclusive
   categories such as community, nationhood, global village and humanism.
   The field of genealogy aims to trace family lineages through history.
   Family is also an important economic unit studied in family economics.
Contents
      Social
      Types of family
           Conjugal (nuclear or single) family
           Matrifocal family
           Extended family
           Family of choice
      Blended family
      Monogamous family
      Polygamous family
           Polygyny
           Polyandry
      Kinship terminology
           Degrees of kinship
           Terminologies
      Roles
      Types of kinship
           Patrilineal
           Matrilineal
           Bilateral descent
      History of theories
           Social Darwinists
           The nuclear family in industrial society
           The postmodern family
           Oedipal family model and fascism
      Domestic violence
           Family violence
                Parental abuse of children (child abuse)
                Parental abuse by children
                Elder abuse
           Forced and child marriage
      The concept of family honor
      Economic issues
           Dowry, bride price and dower
           Property regimes and taxation
      Size
      Rights and laws
           Reproductive rights
           Parents' rights
           Children's rights
           Marriage rights
           Legal reforms
      Work-family balance
      Health
           Family medicine
           Maternal mortality
           Infant and child mortality
      Politics
      Protection of private and family life
      Criticism
      The family and social justice
Social
   A group portrait of a mother, son and daughter on glass, Roman Empire,
   c. 250 AD
   Sauk family photographed by Frank Rinehart in 1899
   One of the primary functions of the family involves providing a
   framework for the production and reproduction of persons, biologically
   and/or socially. This can occur through the sharing of material
   substances (such as food); the giving and receiving of care and nurture
   (nurture kinship); jural rights and obligations; and moral and
   sentimental ties. Thus, one's experience of one's family shifts
   over time. From the perspective of children, the family is a "family of
   orientation": the family serves to locate children socially and plays a
   major role in their enculturation and socialization. From the point
   of view of the parent(s), the family is a "family of procreation," the
   goal of which is to produce and enculturate and socialize children.
   However, producing children is not the only function of the family; in
   societies with a sexual division of labor, marriage, and the resulting
   relationship between two people, it is necessary for the formation of
   an economically productive household.
   Christopher Harris notes that the western conception of family is
   ambiguous, and confused with the household, as revealed in the
   different contexts in which the word is used. Olivia Harris states
   this confusion is not accidental, but indicative of the familial
   ideology of capitalist, western countries that pass social legislation
   that insists members of a nuclear family should live together, and that
   those not so related should not live together; despite the ideological
   and legal pressures, a large percentage of families do not conform to
   the ideal nuclear family type.
Types of family
   A mother with her children, Berlin, Germany, 1962
   A miner with his children, West Virginia, 1946
   Diverse data from ethnography, history, law and social statistics,
   reveal the human family as a social institution and not as a biological
   fact founded on the relationship of consanguinity. The
   different types of families occur in a wide variety of settings, and
   their specific functions and meanings depend largely on their
   relationship to other social institutions. Although early western
   cultural anthropologists and sociologists considered family and kinship
   to be universally associated with relations by "blood" (based on ideas
   common in their own cultures) later research^[2] has shown that many
   societies instead understand family through ideas of living together,
   the sharing of food (e.g. milk kinship) and sharing care and nurture.
   Sociologists have a special interest in the function and status of
   family forms in stratified (especially capitalist) societies.
   According to the work of scholars Max Weber, Alan Macfarlane, Steven
   Ozment, Jack Goody and Peter Laslett, the huge transformation that led
   to modern marriage in Western democracies was "fueled by the
   religio-cultural value system provided by elements of Judaism, early
   Christianity, Roman Catholic canon law and the Protestant
   Reformation".
   Much sociological, historical and anthropological research dedicates
   itself to the understanding of this variation, and of changes in the
   family that form over time. Levitan claims:
     "Times have changed; it is more acceptable and encouraged for
     mothers to work and fathers to spend more time at home with the
     children. The way roles are balanced between the parents will help
     children grow and learn valuable life lessons. There is great
     importance of communication and equality in families, in order to
     avoid role strain."
Conjugal (nuclear or single) family
   The term "nuclear family" is commonly used, especially in the United
   States of America, to refer to conjugal families. A "conjugal" family
   includes only the husband, the wife, and unmarried children who are not
   of age. Sociologists distinguish between conjugal families
   (relatively independent of the kindred of the parents and of other
   families in general) and nuclear families (which maintain relatively
   close ties with their kindred). Other family
   structures, such as blended parents, single parents, and domestic
   partnerships have begun to challenge the normality of the nuclear
   family.
Matrifocal family
   Main article: Matrifocal family
   A "matrifocal" family consists of a mother and her children. Generally,
   these children are her biological offspring, although adoption of
   children is a practice in nearly every society. This kind of family
   occurs commonly where women have the resources to rear their children
   by themselves, or where men are more mobile than women. As a
   definition, "a family or domestic group is matrifocal when it is
   centred on a woman and her children. In this case the father(s) of
   these children are intermittently present in the life of the group and
   occupy a secondary place. The children's mother is not necessarily the
   wife of one of the children's fathers."
Extended family
   Settled Sami (Lapplander) family of farmers in Stensele, Västerbotten,
   Sweden, early 20th century
   A family from Basankusu, Democratic Republic of the Congo.
   The term "extended family" is also common, especially in the United
   States. This term has two distinct meanings:
     First, it serves as a synonym of "consanguinal family" (consanguine
       means "of the same blood").
     Second, in societies dominated by the conjugal family, it refers to
       "kindred" (an egocentric network of relatives that extends beyond
       the domestic group) who do not belong to the conjugal family.
   These types refer to ideal or normative structures found in particular
   societies. Any society will exhibit some variation in the actual
   composition and conception of families.
Family of choice
   The term "family of choice," also sometimes referred to as "chosen
   family," is common within the queer community, both in academic
   literature and in colloquial vocabulary. It refers to the group of
   people in an individual's life that satisfies the typical role of
   family as a support system. The term differentiates between the "family
   of origin" (the biological family or that in which people are raised)
   and those that actively assume that ideal role. The family of
   choice may or may not include some or all of the members of the family
   of origin. This terminology stems from the fact that many LGBT
   individuals, upon coming out, face rejection or shame from the families
   they were raised in. The term family of choice is also used by
   individuals in the 12 step communities, who create close knit "family"
   ties through the recovery process.
Blended family
   The term blended family or stepfamily describes families with mixed
   parents: one or both parents remarried, bringing children of the former
   family into the new family. Also in sociology, particularly in the
   works of social psychologist Michael Lamb, traditional family
   refers to "a middleclass family with a bread-winning father and a
   stay-at-home mother, married to each other and raising their biological
   children," and nontraditional to exceptions from this rule. Most of the
   US households are now non-traditional under this definition.
   In terms of communication patterns in families, there are a certain set
   of beliefs within the family that reflect how its members should
   communicate and interact. These family communication patterns arise
   from two underlying sets of beliefs. One being conversation orientation
   (the degree to which the importance of communication is valued) and
   two, conformity orientation (the degree to which families should
   emphasize similarities or differences regarding attitudes, beliefs, and
   values).
Monogamous family
   A monogamous family is based on legal or social monogamy. In this case,
   an individual has only one (official) partner during their lifetime or
   at any one time (i.e. serial monogamy). This means that a person
   may not have several different legal spouses at the same time, as this
   is usually prohibited by bigamy laws, in jurisdictions that require
   monogamous marriages.
Polygamous family
   Polygamy is a marriage that includes more than two partners.
   When a man is married to more than one wife at a time, the relationship
   is called polygyny; and when a woman is married to more than one
   husband at a time, it is called polyandry. If a marriage includes
   multiple husbands and wives, it can be called polyamory, group or
   conjoint marriage.
Polygyny
   Polygyny is a form of plural marriage, in which a man is allowed more
   than one wife . In modern countries that permit polygamy, polygyny
   is typically the only form permitted. Polygyny is practiced primarily
   (but not only) in parts of the Middle East and Africa; and is often
   associated with Islam, however there are certain conditions in Islam
   that must be met to perform polygyny.
Polyandry
   Polyandry is a form of marriage whereby a woman takes two or more
   husbands at the same time. Fraternal polyandry, where two or more
   brothers are married to the same wife, is a common form of polyandry.
   Polyandry was traditionally practiced in areas of the Himalayan
   mountains, among Tibetans in Nepal, in parts of China and in parts of
   northern India. Polyandry is most common in societies marked by high
   male mortality or where males will often be apart from the rest of the
   family for a considerable period of time.
Kinship terminology
Degrees of kinship
   Main article: Coefficient of relationship
   Family in India, 1870s
   Family in a wagon, Lee County, Mississippi, August 1935.
   A first-degree relative is one who shares 50% of your DNA through
   direct inheritance, such as a full sibling, parent or progeny.
            Kinship                     Degree of
                             relationship                       Coefficient of
                                                              relationship
   Identical twins           not applicable		             100%
   Full sibling              first-degree                     50% 
   Parent-offspring^[30]     first-degree                     50% 
   Half-sibling              first-degree		              25% 
   Grandmother/grandfather   second-degree                    25% 
   Niece/nephew              second-degree                    25% 
   Aunt/uncle                second-degree                    25% 
   First cousin              second-degree		            12.5% 
   Great grandparent         third-degree                     12.5% 
   First cousin once removed fifth-degree                     6.25% 
   Second cousin             sixth-degree                     3.125% 
Terminologies
   Family tree showing the relationship of each person to the blue person.
   Swedish family eating, 1902
   Main article: Kinship terminology
   In his book Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family,
   anthropologist Lewis Henry Morgan (1818–1881) performed the first
   survey of kinship terminologies in use around the world. Although much
   of his work is now considered dated, he argued that kinship
   terminologies reflect different sets of distinctions. For example, most
   kinship terminologies distinguish between sexes (the difference between
   a brother and a sister) and between generations (the difference between
   a child and a parent). Moreover, he argued, kinship terminologies
   distinguish between relatives by blood and marriage (although recently
   some anthropologists have argued that many societies define kinship in
   terms other than "blood").
   Morgan made a distinction between kinship systems that use
   classificatory terminology and those that use descriptive terminology.
   Classificatory systems are generally and erroneously understood to be
   those that "class together" with a single term relatives who actually
   do not have the same type of relationship to ego. (What defines "same
   type of relationship" under such definitions seems to be genealogical
   relationship. This is problematic given that any genealogical
   description, no matter how standardized, employs words originating in a
   folk understanding of kinship.) What Morgan's terminology actually
   differentiates are those (classificatory) kinship systems that do not
   distinguish lineal and collateral relationships and those (descriptive)
   kinship systems that do. Morgan, a lawyer, came to make this
   distinction in an effort to understand Seneca inheritance practices. A
   Seneca man's effects were inherited by his sisters' children rather
   than by his own children. Morgan identified six basic patterns of
   kinship terminologies:
      Hawaiian: only distinguishes relatives based upon sex and
       generation.
      Sudanese: no two relatives share the same term.
      Eskimo: in addition to distinguishing relatives based upon sex and
       generation, also distinguishes between lineal relatives and
       collateral relatives.
      Iroquois: in addition to sex and generation, also distinguishes
       between siblings of opposite sexes in the parental generation.
      Crow: a matrilineal system with some features of an Iroquois
       system, but with a "skewing" feature in which generation is
       "frozen" for some relatives.
      Omaha: like a Crow system but patrilineal.
Roles
   Group photograph of a Norwegian family by Gustav Borgen ca. 1900:
   Father, mother, three sons and two daughters.
   Extended family with roots in Cape Town, Kimberley and Pretoria, South
   Africa
   Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson with grandchild, 1900
   An infant, his mother, his maternal grandmother, and his
   great-grandmother
   Queen Victoria, with her eldest daughter
   Father and child, Dhaka, Bangladesh
   Most Western societies employ Eskimo kinship terminology.^[citation
   needed] This kinship terminology commonly occurs in societies based on
   conjugal (or nuclear) families, where nuclear families have a degree of
   relative mobility. Members of the nuclear use descriptive kinship
   terms:
      Father: a male parent
      Mother: a female parent
      Son: a male child of the parent(s)
      Daughter: a female child of the parent(s)
      Brother: a male sibling
      Sister: a female sibling
      Husband: a male spouse
      Wife: a female spouse
      Grandfather: the father of a parent
      Grandmother: the mother of a parent
      Cousins: two people who share at least one grandparent in common,
       but none of the same parents.
   Such systems generally assume that the mother's husband is also the
   biological father. In some families, a woman may have children with
   more than one man or a man may have children with more than one woman.
   The system refers to a child who shares only one parent with another
   child as a "half-brother" or "half-sister". For children who do not
   share biological or adoptive parents in common, English-speakers use
   the term "stepbrother" or "stepsister" to refer to their new
   relationship with each other when one of their biological parents
   marries one of the other child's biological parents. Any person (other
   than the biological parent of a child) who marries the parent of that
   child becomes the "stepparent" of the child, either the "stepmother" or
   "stepfather". The same terms generally apply to children adopted into a
   family as to children born into the family. In the United States, one
   in five mothers have children by different fathers; among mothers with
   two or more children the figure is higher, with 28% having children
   with at least two different men. Such families are more common among
   Blacks and Hispanics, and among the lower socioeconomic class.
   Typically, societies with conjugal families also favor neolocal
   residence; thus upon marriage a person separates from the nuclear
   family of their childhood (family of orientation) and forms a new
   nuclear family (family of procreation). However, in western society the
   single parent family has been growing more accepted and has begun to
   make an impact on culture. Single parent families are more commonly
   single mother families than single father. These families sometimes
   face difficult issues besides the fact that they have to rear their
   children on their own, for example low income making it difficult to
   pay for rent, child care, and other necessities for a healthy and safe
   home. Members of the nuclear families of members of one's own (former)
   nuclear family may class as lineal or as collateral. Kin who regard
   them as lineal refer to them in terms that build on the terms used
   within the nuclear family:
      Grandparent
           Grandfather: a parent's father
           Grandmother: a parent's mother
      Grandchild
           Grandson: a child's son
           Granddaughter: a child's daughter
   For collateral relatives, more classificatory terms come into play,
   terms that do not build on the terms used within the nuclear family:
      Uncle: parent's brother, or male spouse of parent's sibling
      Aunt: parent's sister, or female spouse of parent's sibling
      Nephew: sibling's son, or spouse's sibling's son
      Niece: sibling's daughter, or spouse's sibling's daughter
   When additional generations intervene (in other words, when one's
   collateral relatives belong to the same generation as one's
   grandparents or grandchildren), the prefixes "great-" or "grand-"
   modifies these terms. Also, as with grandparents and grandchildren, as
   more generations intervene the prefix becomes "great-grand-," adding
   another "great-" for each additional generation. Most collateral
   relatives have never had membership of the nuclear family of the
   members of one's own nuclear family.
      Cousin: the most classificatory term; the children of uncles or
       aunts. One can further distinguish cousins by degrees of
       collaterality and by generation. Two persons of the same generation
       who share a grandparent count as "first cousins" (one degree of
       collaterality); if they share a great-grandparent they count as
       "second cousins" (two degrees of collaterality) and so on. If two
       persons share an ancestor, one as a grandchild and the other as a
       great-grandchild of that individual, then the two descendants class
       as "first cousins once removed" (removed by one generation); if
       they shared ancestor figures as the grandparent of one individual
       and the great-great-grandparent of the other, the individuals class
       as "first cousins twice removed" (removed by two generations), and
       so on. Similarly, if they shared ancestor figures as the
       great-grandparent of one person and the great-great-grandparent of
       the other, the individuals class as "second cousins once removed".
       Hence one can refer to a "third cousin once removed upwards."

   Cousins of an older generation (in other words, one's parents' first
   cousins), although technically first cousins once removed, are often
   classified with "aunts" and "uncles." Similarly, a person may refer to
   close friends of one's parents as "aunt" or "uncle," or may refer to
   close friends as "brother" or "sister," using the practice of fictive
   kinship. English-speakers mark relationships by marriage (except for
   wife/husband) with the tag "-in-law." The mother and father of one's
   spouse become one's mother-in-law and father-in-law; the female spouse
   of one's child becomes one's daughter-in-law and the male spouse of
   one's child becomes one's son-in-law. The term "sister-in-law" refers
   to three essentially different relationships, either the wife of one's
   sibling, or the sister of one's spouse, or, in some uses, the wife of
   one's spouse's sibling. "Brother-in-law" expresses a similar ambiguity.
   The terms "half-brother" and "half-sister" indicate siblings who share
   only one biological or adoptive parent.
Types of kinship
Patrilineal
   Patrilineality, also known as the male line or agnatic kinship, is a
   form of kinship system in which an individual's family membership
   derives from and is traced through his or her father's lineage. It
   generally involves the inheritance of property, rights, names, or
   titles by persons related through male kin.
   A patriline ("father line") is a person's father, and additional
   ancestors that are traced only through males. One's patriline is thus a
   record of descent from a man in which the individuals in all
   intervening generations are male. In cultural anthropology, a
   patrilineage is a consanguineal male and female kinship group, each of
   whose members is descended from the common ancestor through male
   forebears.
Matrilineal
   Matrilineality is a form of kinship system in which an individual's
   family membership derives from and is traced through his or her
   mother's lineage.
   It may also correlate with a societal system in which each person is
   identified with their matriline – their mother's lineage – and which
   can involve the inheritance of property and/or titles. A matriline is a
   line of descent from a female ancestor to a descendant in which the
   individuals in all intervening generations are mothers – in other
   words, a "mother line".
   In a matrilineal descent system, an individual is considered to belong
   to the same descent group as her or his mother. This matrilineal
   descent pattern is in contrasts to the more common pattern of
   patrilineal descent pattern.
Bilateral descent
   Bilateral descent is a form of kinship system in which an individual's
   family membership derives from and is traced through both the paternal
   and maternal sides. The relatives on the mother's side and father's
   side are equally important for emotional ties or for transfer of
   property or wealth. It is a family arrangement where descent and
   inheritance are passed equally through both parents. Families who
   use this system trace descent through both parents simultaneously and
   recognize multiple ancestors, but unlike with cognatic descent it is
   not used to form descent groups.
   Traditionally, this is found among some groups in West Africa, India,
   Australia, Indonesia, Melanesia, Malaysia and Polynesia.
   Anthropologists believe that a tribal structure based on bilateral
   descent helps members live in extreme environments because it allows
   individuals to rely on two sets of families dispersed over a wide
   area.
History of theories
   Main article: History of the family
Social Darwinists
   Early scholars of family history applied Darwin's biological theory of
   evolution in their theory of evolution of family systems. American
   anthropologist Lewis H. Morgan published Ancient Society in 1877 based
   on his theory of the three stages of human progress from Savagery
   through Barbarism to Civilization. Morgan's book was the
   "inspiration for Friedrich Engels' book" The Origin of the Family,
   Private Property and the State published in 1884.
   Engels expanded Morgan's hypothesis that economical factors caused the
   transformation of primitive community into a class-divided
   society. Engels' theory of resource control, and later that of
   Karl Marx, was used to explain the cause and effect of change in family
   structure and function. The popularity of this theory was largely
   unmatched until the 1980s, when other sociological theories, most
   notably structural functionalism, gained acceptance.
The nuclear family in industrial society
   Family arrangements in the United States have become more diverse with
   no particular household arrangement representing half of the United
   States population.
   Contemporary society generally views the family as a haven from the
   world, supplying absolute fulfillment. Zinn and Eitzen discuss the
   image of the "family as haven [...] a place of intimacy, love and trust
   where individuals may escape the competition of dehumanizing forces in
   modern society". During industrialization, "[t]he family as a
   repository of warmth and tenderness (embodied by the mother) stands in
   opposition to the competitive and aggressive world of commerce
   (embodied by the father). The family's task was to protect against the
   outside world." However, Zinn and Eitzen note, "The protective
   image of the family has waned in recent years as the ideals of family
   fulfillment have taken shape. Today, the family is more compensatory
   than protective. It supplies what is vitally needed but missing in
   other social arrangements."
   "The popular wisdom", according to Zinn and Eitzen, sees the family
   structures of the past as superior to those today, and families as more
   stable and happier at a time when they did not have to contend with
   problems such as illegitimate children and divorce. They respond to
   this, saying, "there is no golden age of the family gleaming at us in
   the far back historical past. "Desertion by spouses, illegitimate
   children, and other conditions that are considered characteristics of
   modern times existed in the past as well."
The postmodern family
   Percentage of births to unmarried women, selected countries, 1980 and
   2007
   Others argue that whether or not one views the family as "declining"
   depends on one's definition of "family". "Married couples have dropped
   below half of all American households. This drop is shocking from
   traditional forms of the family system. Only a fifth of households were
   following traditional ways of having married couples raising a family
   together." In the Western World, marriages are no longer arranged
   for economic, social or political gain, and children are no longer
   expected to contribute to family income. Instead, people choose mates
   based on love. This increased role of love indicates a societal shift
   toward favoring emotional fulfilment and relationships within a family,
   and this shift necessarily weakens the institution of the family.
   Margaret Mead considers the family as a main safeguard to continuing
   human progress. Observing, "Human beings have learned, laboriously, to
   be human", she adds: "we hold our present form of humanity on trust,
   [and] it is possible to lose it" ... "It is not without significance
   that the most successful large-scale abrogations of the family have
   occurred not among simple savages, living close to the subsistence
   edge, but among great nations and strong empires, the resources of
   which were ample, the populations huge, and the power almost
   unlimited"
   Many countries (particularly Western) have, in recent years, changed
   their family laws in order to accommodate diverse family models. For
   instance, in the United Kingdom, in Scotland, the Family Law (Scotland)
   Act 2006 provides cohabitants with some limited rights. In 2010,
   Ireland enacted the Civil Partnership and Certain Rights and
   Obligations of Cohabitants Act 2010. There have also been moves at an
   international level, most notably, the Council of Europe European
   Convention on the Legal Status of Children Born out of Wedlock
   which came into force in 1978. Countries which ratify it must ensure
   that children born outside marriage are provided with legal rights as
   stipulated in the text of this Convention. The Convention was ratified
   by the UK in 1981 and by Ireland in 1988.
Oedipal family model and fascism
   The model, common in the western societies, of the family triangle,
   husband-wife-children isolated from the outside, is also called the
   oedipal model of the family, and it is a form of patriarchal family.
   Many philosophers and psychiatrists have analyzed such a model. In such
   a family, they argue, the young develop in a perverse relationship,
   wherein they learn to love the same person who beats and oppresses
   them. They believe that young children grow up and develop loving a
   person who is oppressing them physically or mentally, and that these
   children are not taught in a way that will raise affectionate
   children. Such philosophers claim that the family therefore
   constitutes the first cell of the fascist society, as the children will
   carry this attitude of love for oppressive figures in their adult
   life. They claim that fathers torment their sons.
   Deleuze and Guattari, in their analysis of the dynamics at work within
   a family, "track down all varieties of fascism, from the enormous ones
   that surround and crush us to the petty ones that constitute the
   tyrannical bitterness of our everyday lives".
   As it has been explained by Deleuze, Guattari and Foucault, as well as
   other philosophers and psychiatrists such as Laing and Reich, the
   patriarchal-family conceived in the West tradition serves the purpose
   of perpetuating a propertarian and authoritarian society. The
   child grows according to the oedipal model, which is typical of the
   structure of capitalist societies, and he becomes in turn
   owner of submissive children and protector of the
   woman.
   As the young undergoes physical and psychological repression from
   someone for whom they develop love, they develop a loving attitude
   towards authority figures. They will bring such attitude in their adult
   life, when they will desire social repression and will form docile
   subjects for society. Michel Foucault, in his systematic study of
   sexuality, argued that rather than being merely repressed, the desires
   of the individual are efficiently mobilized and used, to control
   the individual, alter interpersonal relationships and control the
   masses. Foucault believed organized religion, through moral
   prohibitions, and economic powers, through advertising, make use of
   unconscious sex drives. Dominating desire, they dominate
   individuals. According to the analysis of Michel Foucault, in the
   west:
     the [conjugal] family organization, precisely to the extent that it
     was insular and heteromorphous with respect to the other power
     mechanisms, was used to support the great "maneuvers" employed for
     the Malthusian control of the birthrate, for the populationist
     incitements, for the medicalization of sex and the psychiatrization
     of its nongenital forms.
Domestic violence
   Main article: Domestic violence
   Domestic violence (DV) is violence that happens within the family. The
   legal and social understanding of the concept of DV differs by culture.
   The definition of the term "domestic violence" varies, depending on the
   context in which it is used. It may be defined differently in
   medical, legal, political or social contexts. The definitions have
   varied over time, and vary in different parts of the world.
   The Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and
   domestic violence states that:
          " “domestic violence” shall mean all acts of physical, sexual,
          psychological or economic violence that occur within the family
          or domestic unit or between former or current spouses or
          partners, whether or not the perpetrator shares or has shared
          the same residence with the victim".
   In 1993, the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of Violence
   against Women identified domestic violence as one of three contexts in
   which violence against women occurs, describing it as:
          "Physical, sexual and psychological violence occurring in the
          family, including battering, sexual abuse of female children in
          the household, dowry-related violence, marital rape, female
          genital mutilation and other traditional practices harmful to
          women, non-spousal violence and violence related to
          exploitation".
Family violence
   Family violence is a broader definition, often used to include child
   abuse, elder abuse, and other violent acts between family members.
   Child abuse is defined by the WHO as:
          "Child maltreatment, sometimes referred to as child abuse and
          neglect, includes all forms of physical and emotional
          ill-treatment, sexual abuse, neglect, and exploitation that
          results in actual or potential harm to the child’s health,
          development or dignity. Within this broad definition, five
          subtypes can be distinguished – physical abuse; sexual abuse;
          neglect and negligent treatment; emotional abuse; and
          exploitation."
   Elder abuse is, according to the WHO: "a single, or repeated act, or
   lack of appropriate action, occurring within any relationship where
   there is an expectation of trust which causes harm or distress to an
   older person".
Parental abuse of children (child abuse)
   Main article: Parental abuse of children
   Child abuse is the physical, sexual or emotional maltreatment or
   neglect of a child or children. In the United States, the Centers
   for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Department for
   Children and Families (DCF) define child maltreatment as any act or
   series of acts of commission or omission by a parent or other caregiver
   that results in harm, potential for harm, or threat of harm to a
   child. Child abuse can occur in a child's home, or in the
   organizations, schools or communities the child interacts with. There
   are four major categories of child abuse: neglect, physical abuse,
   psychological or emotional abuse, and sexual abuse.
Parental abuse by children
   Main article: Parental abuse by children
   Abuse of parents by their children is a common but under reported and
   under researched subject. Parents are quite often subject to levels of
   childhood aggression in excess of normal childhood aggressive
   outbursts, typically in the form of verbal or physical abuse. Parents
   feel a sense of shame and humiliation to have that problem, so they
   rarely seek help and there is usually little or no help available
   anyway.
Elder abuse
   Main article: Elder abuse
   Elder abuse is "a single, or repeated act, or lack of appropriate
   action, occurring within any relationship where there is an expectation
   of trust, which causes harm or distress to an older person."^[75] This
   definition has been adopted by the World Health Organization from a
   definition put forward by Action on Elder Abuse in the UK. Laws
   protecting the elderly from abuse are similar to, and related to, laws
   protecting dependent adults from abuse.
   The core element to the harm of elder abuse is the "expectation of
   trust" of the older person toward their abuser. Thus, it includes harms
   by people the older person knows or with whom they have a relationship,
   such as a spouse, partner or family member, a friend or neighbor, or
   people that the older person relies on for services. Many forms of
   elder abuse are recognized as types of domestic violence or family
   violence.
Forced and child marriage
   Main articles: Forced marriage and Child marriage
   Forced and child marriages are practiced in certain regions of the
   world, particularly in Asia and Africa, and these types of marriages
   are associated with a high rate of domestic
   violence.
   A forced marriage is a marriage where one or both participants are
   married without their freely given consent. The line between
   forced marriage and consensual marriage may become blurred, because the
   social norms of many cultures dictate that one should never oppose the
   desire of one's parents/relatives in regard to the choice of a spouse;
   in such cultures it is not necessary for violence, threats,
   intimidation etc. to occur, the person simply "consents" to the
   marriage even if he/she doesn't want it, out of the implied social
   pressure and duty. The customs of bride price and dowry, that exist in
   parts of the world, can lead to buying and selling people into
   marriage.
   A child marriage is a marriage where one or both spouses are under
   Child marriage was common throughout history but is today
   condemned by international human rights organizations.
   Child marriages are often arranged between the families of the future
   bride and groom, sometimes as soon as the girl is born. Child
   marriages can also occur in the context of marriage by abduction.
The concept of family honor
   Main article: Family honor
   Further information: Culture of honor and Honor killing
   Family honor is an abstract concept involving the perceived quality of
   worthiness and respectability that affects the social standing and the
   self-evaluation of a group of related people, both corporately and
   individually. The family is viewed as the main source of
   honor and the community highly values the relationship between honor
   and the family. The conduct of family members reflects upon family
   honor and the way the family perceives itself, and is perceived by
   others. In cultures of honor maintaining the family honor is often
   perceived as more important than either individual freedom, or
   individual achievement. In extreme cases, engaging in acts that
   are deemed to tarnish the honor of the family results in honor
   killings. An honor killing is the homicide of a member of a family or
   social group by other members, due to the perpetrators' belief that the
   victim has brought shame or dishonor upon the family or community,
   usually for reasons such as refusing to enter an arranged marriage,
   being in a relationship that is disapproved by their relatives, having
   sex outside marriage, becoming the victim of rape, dressing in ways
   which are deemed inappropriate, or engaging in homosexual
   relations.
Economic issues
   A family is often part of a sharing economy with common ownership.
Dowry, bride price and dower
   Main articles: Dowry, Bride price, and Dower
   A traditional, formal presentation of the bride price at a Thai
   engagement ceremony.
   Dowry is property (money, goods, or estate) that a wife or wife's
   family gives to her husband when the wife and husband marry.
   Offering dowry was common in many cultures historically (including in
   Europe and North America), but this practice today is mostly restricted
   to some areas primarily in South Asia (India, Pakistan, Nepal,
   Bangladesh).
   Bride price, (also bridewealth or bride token), is property paid by the
   groom or his family to the parents of a woman upon the marriage of
   their daughter to the groom. It is practiced mostly in Sub-Saharan
   Africa, parts of South-East Asia (Thailand, Cambodia), and parts of
   Central Asia.
   Dower is property given to the bride herself by the groom at the time
   of marriage, and which remains under her ownership and control.
Property regimes and taxation
   In some countries married couples benefit from various taxation
   advantages not available to a single person or to unmarried couples.
   For example, spouses may be allowed to average their combined incomes.
   Some jurisdictions recognize common law marriage or de facto relations
   for this purposes. In some jurisdictions there is also an option of
   civil partnership or domestic partnership.
   Different property regimes exist for spouses. In many countries, each
   marriage partner has the choice of keeping their property separate or
   combining properties. In the latter case, called community property,
   when the marriage ends by divorce each owns half. In lieu of a will or
   trust, property owned by the deceased generally is inherited by the
   surviving spouse.
Size
   Further information: Fertility factor (demography)
   Mennonite siblings, Montana 1937
   The total fertility rate of women varies from country to country, from
   a high of 6.76 children born/woman in Niger to a low of 0.81 in
   Singapore (as of 2015). Fertility is low in most Eastern European
   and Southern European countries; and high in most Sub-Saharan African
   countries.
   In some cultures, the mother's preference of family size influences
   that of the children through early adulthood. A parent's number
   of children strongly correlates with the number of children that they
   will eventually have.
Rights and laws
Reproductive rights
   Forced sterilization is an example of government authorities coercively
   interfering with reproductive rights. The image shows a "We do not
   stand alone" Nazi poster from 1936 with flags of other countries with
   compulsory sterilization legislation.
   Main article: Reproductive rights
   Further information: Forced sterilization, Forced pregnancy, and Forced
   abortion
   Reproductive rights are legal rights and freedoms relating to
   reproduction and reproductive health. These include the right to decide
   on issues regarding the number of children born, family planning,
   contraception, and private life, free from coercion and discrimination;
   as well as the right to access health services and adequate
   information. According to UNFPA, reproductive
   rights "include the right to decide the number, timing and spacing of
   children, the right to voluntarily marry and establish a family, and
   the right to the highest attainable standard of health, among
   others". Family planning refers to the factors that may be
   considered by individuals and couples in order for them to control
   their fertility, anticipate and attain the desired number of children
   and the spacing and timing of their births.
   The state and church have been, and still are in some countries,
   involved in controlling the size of families, often using coercive
   methods, such as bans on contraception and/or abortion (where the
   policy is a natalist one - for example through tax on childlessness) or
   conversely, discriminatory policies against large families or even
   forced abortions (e.g., China's one-child policy in place from 1978 to
   2015). Forced sterilization has often targeted ethnic minority groups,
   such as Roma women in Eastern Europe, or indigenous women
   in Peru (during the 1990s)
Parents' rights
   The parents' rights movement is a movement whose members are primarily
   interested in issues affecting parents and children related to family
   law, specifically parental rights and obligations. Mothers' rights
   movements focus on maternal health, workplace issues such as labor
   rights, breastfeeding, and rights in family law. The fathers' rights
   movement is a movement whose members are primarily interested in issues
   related to family law, including child custody and child support, that
   affect fathers and their children.
Children's rights
   Main article: Children's rights
   Children's rights are the human rights of children, with particular
   attention to the rights of special protection and care afforded to
   minors, including their right to association with both parents, their
   right to human identity, their right to be provided in regard to their
   other basic needs, and their right to be free from violence and
   abuse.
Marriage rights
   Main article: Marriage laws
   Each jurisdiction has its own marriage laws. These laws differ
   significantly from country to country; and these laws are often
   controversial. Areas of controversy include women's rights as well as
   same sex marriage.
Legal reforms
   Legal reforms to family laws have taken place in many countries during
   the past few decades. These dealt primarily with gender equality within
   marriage and with divorce laws. Women have been given equal rights in
   marriage in many countries, reversing older family laws based on the
   dominant legal role of the husband. Coverture, which was enshrined in
   the common law of England and the US for several centuries and
   throughout most of the 19th century, was abolished. In some European
   countries the changes that lead to gender equality were slower. The
   period of 1975-1979 saw a major overhaul of family laws in countries
   such as Italy, Spain, Austria, West
   Germany, and Portugal. In 1978, the Council of Europe
   passed the Resolution (78) 37 on equality of spouses in civil
   law. Among the last European countries to establish full gender
   equality in marriage were Switzerland, Greece, Spain,
   the Netherlands, and France in the 1980s. In recent
   decades, the marital power has also been abolished in African countries
   that had this doctrine, but many African countries that were former
   French colonies still have discriminatory laws in their marriages
   regulations, such regulations originating in the Napoleonic Code that
   has inspired these laws. In some countries (predominantly Roman
   Catholic) divorce was legalized only recently (e.g. Italy (1970),
   Portugal (1975), Brazil (1977), Spain (1981), Argentina (1987), Ireland
   (1996), Chile (2004) and Malta (2011)) although annulment and legal
   separation were options. Philippines still does not allow divorce. (see
   Divorce law by country). The laws pertaining to the situation of
   children born outside marriage have also been revised in many countries
   (see Legitimacy (law)).
Work-family balance
   Further information: Work–life balance and Work–family balance in the
   United States
   Work-family balance is a concept involving proper prioritizing between
   work/career and family life. It includes issues relating to the way how
   work and families intersect and influence each other. At a political
   level, it is reflected through policies such maternity leave and
   paternity leave. Since the 1950s, social scientists as well as
   feminists have increasingly criticized gendered arrangements of work
   and care, and the male breadwinner role, and policies are increasingly
   targeting men as fathers, as a tool of changing gender relations.
Health
   Global maternal mortality rate per 100 000 live births, (2010)
Family medicine
   Main article: Family medicine
   Family medicine is a medical specialty devoted to comprehensive health
   care for people of all ages; it is based on knowledge of the patient in
   the context of the family and the community, emphasizing disease
   prevention and health promotion. The importance of family
   medicine is being increasingly recognized.
   World infant mortality rates in 2012
Maternal mortality
   Main article: Maternal mortality
   Maternal mortality or maternal death is defined by WHO as "the death of
   a woman while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy,
   irrespective of the duration and site of the pregnancy, from any cause
   related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management but not
   from accidental or incidental causes." Historically, maternal
   mortality was a major cause of women's death. In recent decades,
   advances in healthcare have resulted in rates of maternal mortality
   having dropped dramatically, especially in Western countries. Maternal
   mortality however remains a serious problem in many African and Asian
   counties.
Infant and child mortality
   Main articles: Infant mortality and Child mortality
   Infant mortality is the death of a child less than one year of age.
   Child mortality is the death of a child before the child's fifth
   birthday. Like maternal mortality, infant and child mortality were
   common throughout history, but have decreased significantly in modern
   times.
Politics
   Parents with child statue, Hrobákova street, Petržalka, Bratislava
   The Family sculpture, by Robert Thomas, in Cardiff
   Family policies differ significantly between countries. Depending on
   jurisdiction, family policy may have a multiplicity of functions:
   horizontal redistribution, the enhancement of individual choices,
   increasing fertility rates, supporting economic growth and
   productivity, as well as reducing gender inequalities (Ferragina and
   Seeleib-Kaiser 2015). From a societal perspective, family
   policies can contribute to "horizontal redistribution" between
   generations, as well as between households with and without children;
   to favour individual choices by supporting the reconciliation between
   care and paid work; and to reduce the costs of having children and
   child poverty. From an economic perspective, employment-oriented family
   policy is part of an overall redesign of welfare states geared to
   foster "active citizenship", also among mothers who were formerly not
   employed, through the development of an "enabling state". More generous
   family policies are said to lead to higher employment rates for women,
   mitigate the risk of unemployment for mothers after a substantial
   period of leave, support a social investment strategy, and offset some
   of the costs of raising children. From many feminist perspectives,
   family policies should aim at equalising opportunities between men and
   women through de-familialising care, encouraging men's involvement in
   care work, and facilitating employment opportunities for women.
   Profound social, economic, and cultural changes have led in many
   societies to the decline of the "male breadwinner model" and the move
   towards a variety of "adult worker models" (Daly 2011). Nevertheless,
   family policy expansion has not always fundamentally challenged gender
   inequalities: overall men have not increased their contribution to care
   work sufficiently to "compensate" for women's increased labour force
   participation and slightly reduced participation in care.
   In an era of perceived permanent austerity and overall welfare state
   retrenchment, rich OECD countries have not been prevented from
   expanding family policies (Ferragina and Seeleib-Kaiser 2015). In
   fact, in many of these countries there has been an expansion of family
   policies, leading to a socialisation of family care responsibilities,
   traditionally disproportionately performed by women (Daly and Lewis
   2000). Although at the institutional policy level, the expansion of
   family policy might be characterised as a "silent revolution", relevant
   for gender equality, a cautious interpretation might be necessary:
   gender inequalities in income, opportunities, leisure and other
   significant outcomes remain and are sometimes sustained by policy, even
   if there is an observed shift in their character towards support for
   women's employment (Ferragina and Seeleib-Kaiser 2015).
   The policy shift has been particularly significant in countries that
   had previously emphasised more conservative approaches to family
   policies, such as Germany, Ireland, Japan, and Norway. Hence, it can no
   longer be assumed that in the majority of rich OECD countries care for
   young children will be mainly provided through unpaid work within the
   family. Nevertheless, a certain number of countries still fail to
   provide adequate childcare arrangements, constituting a barrier for
   full-time maternal employment. Furthermore, in some countries, such as
   the United States and the United Kingdom, gender discrimination
   continues to strongly intersect with class; high childcare costs
   constitute a disincentive to labour force participation, especially
   among less educated and unskilled women (Esping-Andersen 2009). This
   means that higher-class and more educated women tend to have better
   opportunities than women belonging to a lower social class.
   Partisanship and women's political agency have been the main drivers
   for family policy change during the 1980s and 1990s in many countries.
   For the 2000s, however, the importance of these drivers has
   significantly declined. As societal preferences have undergone profound
   changes — to some extent driven by the activities of women's equality
   movements, as well as by the experience of women's employment — the
   policy preferences of voters have also changed. Electorates in western
   democracies increasingly want policies supporting "modern" family
   lifestyles which depend on women's employment (Ferragina and
   Seeleib-Kaiser 2015). As political parties react to these changed
   policy preferences, the traditional differences in family policy
   positions between political parties decline. The extent to which this
   translates into support for gender equality, and how such equality
   might be defined, is as yet not decided. However, societal policy
   preferences, long believed to be set in stone, are undergoing profound
   changes; and public opinion increasingly matters for changing policies.
   The changed policy preferences are also mirrored in new political
   discourses that prioritise social investment and the preservation of
   the human capital of women, especially of those who are highly skilled.
   The expansion of family policies geared to supporting women's
   employment and investment in children is very likely to continue in
   western democracies.(Ferragina and Seeleib-Kaiser 2015).
   While in many parts of the world family policies seek to promote a
   gender-equal organization of the family life, in others the
   male-dominated family continues to be the official policy of the
   authorities, which is also supported by law. For instance, the Civil
   Code of Iran states at Article 1105: "In relations between husband and
   wife; the position of the head of the family is the exclusive right of
   the husband".
   In some parts of the world, some governments promote a specific form of
   family, such as that based on traditional family values. The term
   'family values' is often used in political discourse in some countries,
   its general meaning being that of traditional or cultural values that
   pertain to the family's structure, function, roles, beliefs, attitudes,
   and ideals, usually involving the "traditional family" - a middle-class
   family with a breadwinner father and a homemaker mother, raising their
   biological children. Any deviation from this family model is considered
   a "nontraditional family". These family ideals are often advanced
   through policies such as marriage promotion. Some jurisdictions outlaw
   practices which they deem as socially or religiously unacceptable, such
   as fornication, cohabitation or adultery.
Protection of private and family life
   Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides a right
   to respect for one's "private and family life, his home and his
   correspondence", subject to certain restrictions that are "in
   accordance with law" and "necessary in a democratic society".
   “ Article 8 – Right to respect for private and family life
      Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life,
     his home and his correspondence.
      There shall be no interference by a public authority with the
     exercise of this right except such as is in accordance with the law and
     is necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national
     security, public safety or the economic well-being of the country, for
     the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or
     morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.                                                                      ”
Criticism
   Certain social scientists have advocated the abolition of the family.
   An early opponent of the family was Socrates whose position was
   outlined by Plato in The Republic. In Book 5 of The Republic,
   Socrates tells his interlocutors that a just city is one in which
   citizens have no family ties.
   The family being such a deep-rooted and much-venerated institution, few
   intellectuals have ventured to speak against it. Familialism has been
   atypically defined as a “social structure where … a family's values are
   held in higher esteem than the values of the individual members of the
   family.” Favoritism granted to relatives regardless of merit is
   called nepotism.
   The Russian-American rationalist and individualist philosopher,
   novelist and playwright Ayn Rand compared partiality towards
   consanguinity with racism, as a small-scale manifestation of the
   latter. “The worship of the family is merely racism, like a
   crudely primitive first installment on the worship of the tribe. It
   places the accident of birth above a man's values and duty to the tribe
   above a man's right to his own life.”^[148] Additionally, she spoke in
   favor of childfree lifestyle, while following it herself.
   The British social critic, poet, mountaineer and occultist Aleister
   Crowley censured the institution of family in his works: “Horrid word,
   family! Its very etymology accuses it of servility and stagnation. /
   Latin, famulus, a servant; Oscan, Faamat, he dwells. … [T]hink what
   horrid images it evokes from the mind. Not only Victorian; wherever the
   family has been strong, it has always been an engine of tyranny. Weak
   members or weak neighbours: it is the mob spirit crushing genius, or
   overwhelming opposition by brute arithmetic. … In every Magical, or
   similar system, it is invariably the first condition which the Aspirant
   must fulfill: he must once and for all and for ever put his family
   outside his magical circle.”
   The American journalist Marty Nemko considers family to be overrated.
   “Politicians, clerics, and just plain folks extol family as our most
   important institution. / I believe family is overrated. So many people
   suffer inordinately from family. … / Millions of people don't even
   speak with a family member. Millions more spend years and fortunes on
   therapists, trying to undo the ills that family perpetrated on them. /
   All this shouldn’t be surprising. After all, unlike with friends, we
   are placed in our family of origin at random, with no say in the
   matter.”
The family and social justice
   One of the controversies regarding the family is the application of the
   concept of social justice to the private sphere of family relations, in
   particular with regard to the rights of women and children. Throughout
   much of the history, most philosophers who advocated for social justice
   focused on the public political arena, not on the family structures;
   with the family often being seen as a separate entity which needed to
   be protected from outside state intrusion. One notable exception was
   John Stuart Mill, who, in his work The Subjection of Women, advocated
   for greater rights for women within marriage and family. Second
   wave feminists argued that the personal is political, stating that
   there are strong connections between personal experiences and the
   larger social and political structures. In the context of the feminist
   movement of the 1960s and 1970s, this was a challenge to the nuclear
   family and family values, as they were understood then. Feminists
   focused on domestic violence, arguing that the reluctance - in law or
   in practice - of the state to intervene and offer protection to women
   who have been abused within the family, is in violation of women's
   human rights, and is the result of an ideology which places family
   relations outside the conceptual framework of human rights.
<T=1-10.txt>
      The Huffington Post
   POLITICS
Bill Shorten Wants To Do Away With Our '50s Definition Of Family
"I think what parents don't need is the judgment of others."
   29/06/2016 8:47 PM AEST | Updated 15/07/2016 12:56 PM AEST
      David Barden Journalist
   Bill Shorten opened up about how his experience of being a stepfather
   has shaped his views on family while appearing on the ABC's Kitchen
   Cabinet on Wednesday night.
   The episode was aired after Shorten was criticised on Wednesday morning
   when The Australian published footage of him telling an Australian
   Christian Lobby forum three years ago that he was "completely relaxed
   about having some form of plebiscite" on same-sex marriage.
   However, he has since admitted that he's had a change of heart,
   claiming it had been a stitch up so that Malcolm Turnbull "could get
   some avid conservatives to vote for him in the internal civil wars of
   the liberal party".
   During his relaxed chat with host Annabel Crabb, Shorten advocated for
   changing the views of Australians when it comes to what makes a family.
   "This 1950s definition of what constitutes a family, I don't think that
   describes not just gay couples with kids but I don't think it describes
   blended families," he told Crabb.
     I think what parents don't need is the judgment of others
   "I don't think it captures single-parent families. You know that old
   saying, 'it takes a village to raise a child'? There's a lot of truth
   to that.
   "One of the reasons why I support marriage equality is that
   same-sex-attracted couples who love each other and have kids, why
   should their kids somehow feel invalidated or that somehow their
   parents, their carers, that their relationships are any less valuable
   or wanted?"
   Shorten said that being a stepfather has made him realise that
   politicians should be working to enable people to live their lives
   without fear or prejudice, further cementing his position against a
   same-sex marriage plebiscite.
   The Opposition Leader married Chloe Bryce, the daughter of former
   Governor General Quentin Bryce, in 2009 and has one child with her,
   Clementine. Chloe has two children from a previous marriage, Georgette
   and Rupert.
   "The experience of being a father, of being a stepfather, has opened my
   eyes that people's relationships don't need opinion polls from other
   people," he said.
   "The job of government is to help create the right economic
   circumstances, you know, do the right things in education, health care,
   enable people's lives. It's not to stand in some sort of moral
   judgment.
   "I think what parents don't need is the judgment of others."
   MORE: Bill Shorten Family Kitchencabinet Parenting Politics
   Relationships Same-Sex Marriage
<T=1-11.txt>
    alternate alternate alternate The Changing American Family
The Changing American Family
   MAY 18, 2001
   Few sociological metaphors have ever been as successful as that of the
   nuclear family, which entered the language in 1949 at the beginning of
   what turned out to be the baby boom -- another highly successful figure
   of speech. The phrase ''nuclear family,'' meaning a married man and
   woman living with their offspring, was introduced by the anthropologist
   George Murdock, who openly acknowledged the implicit metaphor. ''Among
   the majority of the peoples on earth,'' he wrote, ''nuclear families
   are combined, like atoms in a molecule, into larger aggregates.'' But
   he also noted that in our own society, the nuclear family was ''the
   type of family recognized to the exclusion of all others.''
   The cultural truth acknowledged in that last sentence is one of the
   reasons why the Census Bureau's new data on family structures in
   America are so interesting. For the past half-century, this country has
   tended to think of the state of the nuclear family as a leading moral
   indicator. Now, for the first time, fewer than a quarter of the
   households in this country are made up of nuclear families -- 23.5
   percent to be exact, down from 25.6 percent in 1990 and 45 percent in
   1960. Also, for the first time, the number of people living alone is
   greater than the number of nuclear families. Meanwhile, the number of
   unmarried couples nearly doubled in the past decade to 5.5 million,
   still vastly fewer than the 55 million married couples.
   It is certainly possible to read these figures as unwelcome deviations
   from a fundamental norm, as conservative groups like the Family
   Research Council do. But the dominance of the nuclear family in the
   1950's and 1960's was just as much an expression of prevailing economic
   and sociological forces as its lack of dominance is now. The broad
   social shifts underlying these data -- the prevalence of women working
   outside the home, the decline of agricultural households, the
   ever-growing mobility of Americans, the postponing of marriage and
   childbearing, the extension of life spans -- do not necessarily point
   toward a more fragile social structure, even though some changes, like
   the increase in the number of single women with children, are
   troubling. What they point to is the flexibility and the increasing
   complexity of American family arrangements.
   The ideological emphasis on the nuclear family in recent decades has
   caused us to forget that the nuclear family itself, especially in its
   suburban, Ozzie and Harriet form, is a reduction of what family has
   meant in most places at most times in human history. The American
   nuclear family has been notable, to borrow George Murdock's words, for
   not combining into larger aggregates, like extended families, but for
   sticking to itself.
   You only have to have grown up in a nuclear family to understand the
   good it can do. But even children who grew up in nuclear families have
   contributed to their decline as they have gone on in many cases to form
   non-nuclear families of their own. What the new census data underscore
   is an increasing awareness that the nuclear family is not the only kind
   of family or even the only healthy kind of family. In modern America no
   type of family can really be recognized to the exclusion of all others.
<T=1-12.txt>
    alternate alternate alternate Married Couples Are No Longer a
   Majority, Census Finds
The New York Times
U.S.|Married Couples Are No Longer a Majority, Census Finds
Married Couples Are No Longer a Majority, Census Finds
   By SABRINA TAVERNISEMAY 26, 2011
   WASHINGTON — Married couples have dropped below half of all American
   households for the first time, the Census Bureau says, a milestone in
   the evolution of the American family toward less traditional forms.
   Married couples represented just 48 percent of American households in
   2010, according to data being made public Thursday and analyzed by the
   Brookings Institution. This was slightly less than in 2000, but far
   below the 78 percent of households occupied by married couples in 1950.
   What is more, just a fifth of households were traditional families —
   married couples with children — down from about a quarter a decade ago,
   and from 43 percent in 1950, as the iconic image of the American family
   continues to break apart.
   In recent history, the marriage rate among Americans was at its highest
   in the 1950s, when the institution defined gender roles, family life
   and a person’s place in society. But as women moved into the work
   force, cohabitation lost its taboo label, and as society grew more
   secular, marriage lost some of its central authority.
   “The days of Ozzie and Harriet have faded into the past,” said William
   Frey, the senior demographer at Brookings who analyzed the data. (The
   proportion of married couples slipped below half over the past decade,
   but was first reported as a precise count by the 2010 census.)
   Today, traditional patterns have been turned upside down. Women with
   college degrees are now more likely to marry than those with just high
   school diplomas, the reverse of several decades ago, said June Carbone,
   a law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, and
   co-author of “Red Families v. Blue Families.”
   Rising income inequality has divided American society, making
   college-educated people less likely to marry those without college
   degrees. Members of that educated group have struck a new path: they
   marry later and stay married. In contrast, women with only a high
   school diploma are increasingly opting not to marry the fathers of
   their children, whose fortunes have declined along with the country’s
   economic opportunities.
   “Employment instability depresses marriage rates,” Ms. Carbone said.
   Explaining the reasoning, she said, “I can support myself and the kid,
   but not myself, the kid, and him.”
   W. Bradford Wilcox, the director of the National Marriage Project at
   the University of Virginia, argues that the retreat from marriage is
   bad for society because it means less security for children. “It’s
   troubling because those kids are much more likely to be exposed to
   instability, complex family relations and poverty,” he said.
   Married couples may be half of all households, but that does not mean
   that only half of Americans will ever be married. The overwhelming
   majority of Americans — with some exceptions — do eventually marry
   (though increasingly, working-class people do not stay married).
   Households are changing in other ways. Americans are living longer than
   ever, so households now include a growing number of elderly singles,
   said Andrew J. Cherlin, a demographer at Johns Hopkins University.
   Other factors have been the large influx of immigrants, who tend to be
   single people in their 20s and 30s, and the growing number of young
   people who live together without being married.
   There are 37 states, plus the District of Columbia, in which married
   couples make up fewer than 50 percent of all households, up from just 6
   states in 2000, Mr. Frey said.
   In all, 41 states showed declines in traditional households of married
   couples with children. In 2000, married couples with children were
   fewer than 20 percent of all households in just one state, plus the
   District of Columbia. Now they are fewer than a fifth in 31 states, Mr.
   Frey said.
   The biggest change for the decade was the jump in households headed by
   women without husbands — up by 18 percent in the decade. The next
   largest rise was in households whose occupants were not a family — up
   by about 16 percent, Mr. Frey said.
   A version of this article appears in print on May 26, 2011, on Page A22
   of the New York edition with the headline: Married Couples Are No
   Longer a Majority, Census Finds. 
<T=1-13.txt>
   News about Britain
   Modern British Families
                                                           Mother and kids
   Listen to the story
   Father leaves for work in the morning after breakfast. The two children
   take the bus to school, and mother stays at home cooking and cleaning
   until father and the kids return home in the evening. This is the
   traditional picture of a happy family living in Britain. But is it true
   today? The answer is - no! The past 20 years have seen enormous changes
   in the lives and structures of families in Britain, and the traditional
   model is no longer true in many cases.
   The biggest change has been caused by divorce. As many as 2 out of 3
   marriages now end in divorce, leading to a situation where many
   children live with one parent and only see the other at weekends or
   holidays.
   There has also been a huge rise in the number of mothers who work. The
   large rise in divorces has meant many women need to work to support
   themselves and their children. Even when there is no divorce, many
   families need both parents to work in order to survive. This has caused
   an increase in childcare facilities, though they are very expensive and
   can be difficult to find in many areas. In addition, women are no
   longer happy to stay at home raising children, and many have careers
   earning as much as or even more than men, the traditional breadwinners.
   There has also been a sharp increase in the number of single mothers,
   particularly among teenagers. Many of their children grow up never
   knowing their fathers, and some people feel the lack of a male role
   model has a damaging effect on their lives.
   However, these changes have not had a totally negative effect. For
   women, it is now much easier to have a career and good salary. Although
   it is difficult to be a working mother, it has become normal and it's
   no longer seen as a bad thing for the children. As for children
   themselves, some argue that modern children grow up to be more
   independent and mature than in the past. From an early age they have to
   go to childminders or nurseries, and so they are used to dealing with
   strangers and mixing with other children.
   So while the traditional model of a family may no longer be true in
   modern Britain, the modern family continues to raise happy, successful
   children.
   Vocabulary
   divorce
   when a marriage ends and the former husband and wife separate from one
   another
   a huge rise
   a very big increase/growth (opposite to fall/decrease/decline)
   to support
   here, to provide with a home and the necessities of life
   childcare facilities
   special institutions whose job is to look after children while parents
   are working
   raising
   bringing up and educating
   breadwinners
   a breadwinner is the person who earns the most money in their family
   sharp
   here, big and happening over a short period of time
   single mothers
   women who raise their children by themselves because they live
   separately from the children's fathers
   lack
   if there is a lack of something, there is not enough of it
   male role model
   a man who thinks and acts in the way that is traditionally perceived as
   being typical of men
   nurseries
   places equipped for looking after very young children
   dealing with
   managing, doing what is necessary to achieve the result you want
   mixing with
   socialising, living together with, joining
<T=1-14-utf8.txt>
   BBC NEWS | UK Low Graphics
   The UK family: In statistics
   Families are changing shape and facing up to new lifestyle challenges.
   The facts and figures below give an idea of what the typical UK family
   looks like in the early 21st century.
   WHAT IS A 'TYPICAL' FAMILY?
   There were 17.1 million families in the UK in 2006 - up from 16.5
   million in 1996.
   Most were still headed by a married couple (71%), although the
   proportion of cohabiting couple families had increased to 14%, from 9%
   10 years earlier.
   Although two children remains the most common family size, the average
   number of children per family in the UK has dropped - from 2.0 in 1971
   to 1.8.
   Graphic showing average family statistics
   WHERE FAMILIES LIVE
   More young people are living at home for longer. In 2006, 58% of men
   and 39% of women aged 20-24 in England still lived at home with their
   parents.
   There is a larger than average concentration of single people living in
   London, whereas married couples and families tend to be concentrated in
   the centre of the country and around the outskirts of major cities,
   according to research by Professor Danny Dorling of Sheffield
   University.
   His map is based on data drawn from the 85 constituencies used for the
   European parliamentary elections in 1999, each containing roughly half
   a million people over the age of 18 in a similar geographical area.
   The areas are categorised, for example as predominantly single, where
   the number of people living on their own is the most unusually large
   group compared with the national average.
   Figures were not available for Northern Ireland.
   Marital status in England, Scotland and Wales
   WORK-LIFE BALANCE
   In most families with dependent children, the father is still the main
   wage earner and the mother often works part-time.
   According to the BBC/ICM poll, 33% of women still do the bulk of
   household chores, but 35% of respondents said both parents shared
   childcare duties.
   Average time spent
   SPENDING HABITS
   The average family income is £32,779 before tax.
   According to ONS figures, an average household - made up of 3.9 people
   - spends £601.20 a week, compared with a couple's average spend of
   £527.30. In other words, the household spends £155.60 per head,
   compared with a couple's spend of £263.60 per head.
   What are these?
   FUTURE FAMILY
   Teenagers Hot topic
   Family policy could be a key battleground at the next UK election
   Smaller families are the future
   How much is family life changing?
   Families' future 'looks brighter'
   Togetherness: Bedouin family ties
   China's families far from home
   The UK family: In statistics
   Sheifa Abdel Salam, Egyptian family photo journal Egyptian village
   Family life for a working mother in north-east Egypt
   Abdul Karim Conteh and two children Freetown family
   Family life for a Sierra Leonean footballer, his wife and four children
   Indian farmer Rural India
   A look inside an Indian farming family in the state of Haryana
   Indonesia family Indonesia family
   A glimpse of family life in the Indonesian capital, Jakarta
   watch Changing UK families
   watch Chinese families
   watch Bedouin family
   HAVE YOUR SAY
   How important is family today?
<T=1-15.txt>
   Pew Research Center RSS Feed Pew Research Center » Fewer than half of
   U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family Comments Feed alternate
   alternate
   Fact Tank - Our Lives in Numbers
   December 22, 2014
Fewer than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family
   By Gretchen Livingston90 comments
   Less than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family
   Fewer than half (46%) of U.S. kids younger than 18 years of age are
   living in a home with two married heterosexual parents in their first
   marriage. This is a marked change from 1960, when 73% of children fit
   this description, and 1980, when 61% did, according to a Pew Research
   Center analysis of recently released American Community Survey (ACS)
   and Decennial Census data.
   Less than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘traditional’ family Rapid
   changes in American family structure have altered the image of who’s
   gathering for the holidays. While the old “ideal” involved couples
   marrying young, then starting a family, and staying married till “death
   do they part,” the family has become more complex, and less
   “traditional.”
   Americans are delaying marriage, and more may be foregoing the
   institution altogether. At the same time, the share of children born
   outside of marriage now stands at 41%, up from just 5% in 1960. While
   debate continues as to whether divorce rates have been rising or
   falling in recent decades, it’s clear that in the longer term, the
   share of people who have been previously married is rising, as is
   remarriage.
   According to our analysis, today 15% of children are living with two
   parents who are in a remarriage. It is difficult to accurately identify
   stepchildren in the ACS data, so we don’t know for sure if these kids
   are from another union, or were born within the remarriage. However,
   data from another Census source—the 2013 Current Population Survey
   (CPS)—indicates that 6% of all children are living with a stepparent.
   One of the largest shifts in family structure is this: 34% of children
   today are living with an unmarried parent—up from just 9% in 1960, and
   19% in 1980. In most cases, these unmarried parents are single.
   However, a small share of all children—4%—are living with two
   cohabiting parents, according to CPS data. Because of concerns about
   the quality of the new 2013 ACS data on same-sex marriage, we do not
   separate out the very small number of children whose parents are
   identified as in this type of union, but instead fold them into this
   “single parent” category.
   The remaining 5% of children are not living with either parent. In most
   of these cases, they are living with a grandparent—a phenomenon that
   has become much more prevalent since the recent economic recession.
   Topics: Demographics, Marriage and Divorce, Parenthood
90 Comments
     Anonymous  7 months ago
       this is sad…really
       Porter Sykes  1 year ago
       The family can be complicated, especially in these times. There are
       lots of issues and differences that can rise up between people.
       Although there are many different kinds of families, and many can
       find success through love and nurture, I feel that a family headed
       by a mother and father in love and unity provides the greatest
       possibilities for children. All marriages will experience problems
       and conflicts. Big ones at times. Life is just like that, hard.
       However, the new trend is that when something is hard you can just
       get out, quit, and that seems to be a rising trend in the family as
       well. When a family is broken there is lost opportunity for mutual
       growth and love among parents and children as well as brothers and
       sisters. Being in a family really needs to be about putting the
       needs of someone else above your own, and that really creates an
       environment of love, mutual respect, and progress. When parents
       have the perspective that their family can last longer than just
       this life, it helps them to realize that their is such great
       potential in the family. Some of our greatest difficulties can come
       through family issues, but at the same time, the greatest happiness
       we can and will ever experience will be through our families.
     tommy rittner  1 year ago
       my parnets got a divorce and its not really having an effect on me,
       is something wrong???
          jack  1 year ago
            no don’t worry my parents had a divorce, you may not be
            affected, but you may start to realize you’re acting
            differently or are affected and don’t want to admit it. you’re
            not “heartless” or cold, like u might think you are, it’s ok.
               Pam Detweiler  1 year ago
                 Numb to their need, a reason for the commitment to
                 another through sacrifice!! Dying to self is our real
                 need in marriage. Very few are willing to put the
                 children above themselves! It is an all about
                 ‘me’existence as the children are forced to live through
                 the fall out, the stark carnage, of a Godless non
                 nurtured, sadly egnored generation! Loving things and
                 abusing or egnoring little people! It is a cause for deep
                 sadness, for all!
                    Julie  1 year ago
                      Agreed. Ask a parent if they’d give their right arm
                      for their child and most all of them would answer a
                      resounding “Yes!” Ask them to stay in a difficult
                      marriage and work on it for the sake of their
                      children and the answer is not so unanimous.
                      Children in intact families do better on every
                      measure of success. Marriages can (and often do) get
                      better with maturity. You have to be willing to
                      stick it out through both the good times AND the
                      bad.
          Anonymous  9 months ago
            no,theres nothing wrong with you maybe you just dont have a
            big affect on it like your okay with it
     Bob Schwarz  1 year ago
       I write a global blog called EXODUS TREKKERS, and would like to
       know if your stats in this very fine article have been or need to
       be significantly up[dated…Bob
     Kalita  1 year ago
       well I’m not surprised… people these days are not as responsible
       and aren’t ready to handle family or marriage as well… and when
       girls get pregnant guys duck out and are like “well handle your own
       crap I’m outta here” and then this info pops up.
     Batman  1 year ago
       not accurate information what so ever
     Anon  1 year ago
       Been on my own since 14. My adoptive mother died when I had just
       turned 13- I had no relationship with her husband. When she died,
       he sent me off to abusive places under the guise of “getting help”
       my entire college fund was spent up to a million dollars in places
       that were abusive. I aged out of these facilities at 18 and have
       been on my own since. I never had anyone (closed adoption) and
       since 13 have never really had anyone. Been on my own.
          Anonymous  7 months ago
            My heart goes out to you. Realize there is someone who had
            always been there waiting for you, who will alway love you no
            matyet what you have done or where you have been. God wil
            alway love you, he loves you so much he sent his son to die
            one the cross for you all you have to do is take the first
            step, and ask him into your heart
     Kristin Yokum  1 year ago
       On the subject of kids living with grandparents, I agree that it
       has become more prevalent. And I think it has caused a lot of
       issues not only in the children’s lives but also in the
       grandparents as well. Not only that, elderly people, in my opinion,
       aren’t usually equipped to care for children due to health issues
       caused by old age.
       Bridgitt Lee  2 years ago
       A lot of gay people and asexual people got married and/or had
       children, because they thought they were supposed to, even though
       deep down, they knew it wasn’t for them. They pretty much hide in
       the closet until they can’t take it, and end up divorced. I grew up
       in amily wre the women are happily single. The hated the
       marriage/mortage thing, said it’s trap, and they dnured a lot of
       thankless suffering from their husbands family,a nd from the
       governemt. They were not happily married at all, some of them had
       kids, even though they didn’t want them or couldn’t afford them,
       and deeply regret it, I have a grandmother who hates her son,
       because he is very abusive, and she wishes she could have aborted
       him, because he’s disgusting, and he hides behind his religion. As
       she said, none of her prayers were answered, so she gave up, and
       goes one day at a time. She doesn’t push religion on my mom or I at
       all. Pretty much the women got married because they thought they
       supposed to, even though they really didn’t know better or didn’t
       want it, and stayed and endured lots of hardships and tragedies and
       got nothing out of it, and only now have peace in being single. A
       lot of them stayed married because of religion and tradition, even
       thought he best thing would have been to stay single or to get
       divorced. Them staying together helped to screw up their kid and
       kids even more. The women sacrificed and compromised for nothing,
       and hated it. Some single parents do a pretty good job, you know?
          Alicia  1 year ago
            The Bible says the homosexual life is a sin.Those who do such
            things will not enter heaven.But those who repent and receive
            Jesus will find salvation if they abandon their former
            works.Remarriage according to the Bible is also sin unless the
            first spouse is deceased.
            Romans 7:2-3
            7 Corinthians 7:39
            Matthew 5:31-32
            1 Corinthians 6:9-11
            I pray you find what you are looking for in Christ Jesus
            alone!
            John 3:16
            For God so loved the world
            That He gave His only Son
            that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have
            eternal life.
               Pastor Steve  1 year ago
                 Allcia, you are exactly the kind of person that omits
                 grace. It is not your place to condemn or convict. It’s
                 your job to love your neighbor as yourself. You without
                 sin cast the first stone. I guarantee you if I was fly on
                 your wall for 10 minutes I could formulate a long list of
                 sins in your life. Sin does not have sub categories…your
                 just as much a sinner as a liar, gossip as is a murderer
                 or in your words….a gay person. Put your rocks back in
                 your pocket and use them for your house. And PLEASE don’t
                 go to church….you will ruin the experience for someone
                 else. Stay home and watch TV evangelist.
                    Kim  1 year ago
                      “Pastor Steve” Can you just chill for a moment?
                      She’s not slamming anybody, she’s stating her
                      beliefs. I happen to agree with her, and she’s not
                      hurling stones. She’s telling the truth. The Bible
                      says it is an abomination. Lying is too. Just cool
                      your jets. There’s nothing to be upset about.
                      I’d like to remind you that you are a sinner too.
                      Also, not telling someone to go to church because
                      they’ll ruin the service? Real mature there,
                      Shepherd of the Flock. You’re acting like a five
                      year-old. Relax.
                    Julie  1 year ago
                      “Pastor” Steve. Paul said, “May we sin so that grace
                      may abound? May it never be!” The BIBLE is the
                      judgment. It is the homosexual action that is the
                      sin. In the same way that if my neighbor’s husband
                      is attractive to me, that is a feeling, but if I act
                      on that feeling, it is now a sin. Or would you tell
                      your “flock” not to judge me? Please, if you are
                      indeed a pastor, read your Bible. Pastors who
                      mislead their flocks are in for a harsh judgment.
                      Don’t be one of them.
                      Dylan Landon  11 months ago
                      But Pastor Steve, she is right, its not right for
                      people to be gay or lesbian, and if you really are a
                      pastor, its not right that you are accepting this,
                      you should be one of the leaders to stand against
                      this, its not right, and the fact that you are okay
                      with this shows there is obviously something wrong.
               Anonymous  7 months ago
                 1 Timothy 2:12
    bseay  2 years ago
       My family is in the “two married parents, one or both remarried”
       bucket because I was previously married — a marriage that ended
       without children. My previous marriage has had — and will not have–
       any effect on my children, so I’m bewildered that my family is put
       in your “negative” bucket”. I’d call it “bad research methodology”,
       but it’s not even that — it’s just bad segmentation strategy, which
       puts your whole “study” (which I’d otherwise support) as poorly
       thought out.
    Siddy  2 years ago
       I am curious about how these stats differ for different ethnic and
       socioeconomic groups in the U.S. I am East Indian, and only one of
       my indian-American friends out of hundreds has a divorced parent.
       And no, they are not in forced marriages or anything like that. On
       the other hand, my brother has almost all black friends and
       literally only one of them has a dad at home. He is Haitian though,
       not typical African American.
    DB  2 years ago
       Widespread divorce and family breakdown, single motherhood,
       increased drug use, gun violence and urban decay, all products of
       the 1960’s hippie movements and cultural revolution. The only
       positive things to come out of the 1960’s has been greater
       tolerance for gays and minorities, as well as greater equality for
       women, otherwise the social changes that that decade brought has
       been an unmitigated disaster for America and likely the west in
       general. I fear that until society really reevaluates the impact of
       the extreme individualism and sexual revolution and drug use of the
       1960’s and tries to undo some of the damage that that decade
       wrought we’ll continue to decline until America is no better than a
       third world country.
          MG  2 years ago
            The usual social conservative tripe which isn’t based on any
            factual basis. It was the legalization of no-fault divorce
            starting in CA in ’69 (and quickly adopted conservative and
            liberal alike in the 70s) and the widespread adoption of the
            birth control pill.
            Unless social conservatives agree to get rid of no-fault
            divorces and ban the birth control pill, the ‘genie is out of
            the bottle.’
    Polly  2 years ago
       The traditional family is not an anomaly…it is God’s design for
       marriage. His moral laws apply to ALL people at ALL times. Please
       don’t let anyone mislead you to think that the traditional family
       is just some Leave it to Beaver fantasy that isn’t relevant to
       today’s society. It is the ONLY right way to have a family, in
       God’s eyes.
          David Hill  2 years ago
            Lol, what about mostly Muslim cultures? Isolated tribal
            communities? God is dying, and so is the “traditional” family.
            All you need is one or two loving parents to raise you with
            good morals, NOT the bible’s morals.
                 Paul R  2 years ago
                 And where do you think “good” morals should come from?
                 You? I hope not.
                    Anonymous  2 years ago
                      Good morals come from the Bible alone, which alone
                      the truth resides in; God is not dead, He is more
                      alive than any of us can ever be, we just need to
                      accept Him and believe in Him; I pray He will lead
                      us all and guide us all in all of our lives and our
                      families.
                    Kleiva  2 years ago
                      good.
                      Sean Renaud  2 years ago
                      They most definitely come from people. There is no
                      place else for them to come from. And no even the
                      Bible had plenty of dudes with multiple wives. This
                      “traditional” family is only a few centuries old and
                      clearly doesn’t seem to have been planned by the
                      imaginary sky bully but go on believing that
                      nonsense if you like.
                         Anonymous  7 months ago
                           You apparently have not read the Bible very
                           much her well you’re on the people who Socrates
                           talks about. If you really read the Bible all
                           oh yes there is multiple wives God speaks
                           against it. All research proves that
                           traditional marriage produces healthier
                           children
          victoria  2 years ago
            what the hell how could you say that any family is the right
            way all you need is for someone to love you and tech you the
            difference between right and wrong.
               Sgt. Jerry Rediger  1 year ago
                 And where does that foundation of right and wrong come
                 from?? Oh, I know! The same God Who designed marriage to
                 be between one man and one woman, and ordained they raise
                 children only within that context!
    Anonymous  2 years ago
       Good job feminists!
    Earthy  2 years ago
       Much more prevenlent? Jumping from 4% to 4% to 5% does not seem to
       be a very big change.
    TM  2 years ago
       Looking at the chart you provided, it seems that there’s been no
       meaningful change in the proportion of families with at least one
       remarried parent or the proportion of no-parent families since
       1960; the dramatic change seems to be the shift from two
       first-marriage parents to all the permutations of “single”
       parenthood. Am I missing something?
          Gretchen Livingston  2 years ago
            Yep you’re right–the share of kids living with remarried
            parents has been remarkably stable. Most of the change in the
            living arrangements of kids has resulted from the increase in
            kids living with single parents.
    Tamika  2 years ago
       Really pew research, you should not be able to use the research
       with statements like this, “Because of concerns about the quality
       of the new 2013 ACS data on same-sex marriage, we do not separate
       out the very small number of children whose parents are identified
       as in this type of union, but instead fold them into this “single
       parent” category, as well.”
    Jen H.  2 years ago
       Nobody in my family reflects the fears of some of these
       commenters–godless, amoral, parentless, public-trough-feeding,
       society-wreckers. And everybody in my family loves *family* just as
       much as the Cleavers or the Traditionals or whoever without
       *looking* anything like them. Nothing can make people stop loving
       each other or stop valuing family. Life happens. It’s messy. It
       doesn’t really matter what shape a family is. I guess mine is at
       least 6th or 7th generation “blended non-traditional”. My
       great-great-grandma was widowed very young. She was poor and was
       capable of caring only for her infant on her own, so she sent my
       toddler great-grandma to be raised by relatives. This was in Italy,
       and my great-grandma grew up and married, but raised her kids
       mostly alone while her husband made more than one years-long,
       grueling, life-changing trips to America, in preparation to bring
       the family over. Shortly after they reunited here, he died. My
       great-grandma continued to raise the 4 kids, including twins,
       alone, taking in boarders for more income. One of her children
       became pregnant at age 14 by a boarder (himself without parents and
       about the same age). They married (so young!) and had 2 more kids
       before he died in a mining accident. Barely out of her teens, his
       widow remarried and had two more kids. Her twin sister was my
       grandma. She married my grandpa (whose dad had arrived in America
       at age 5, with 7 older brothers and no parents, and whose mom had
       been sent over from Sicily as a teen, along with her sister, as
       brides for my grandpa and one of his brothers). They had my mom,
       who didn’t meet her dad until she was three because he had shipped
       off to WWII 6 months before she was born. The war changed things,
       though; they divorced but remained close. She raised my mom with
       his co-parenting help. He remarried and had another child, who was
       still a kid when he passed of heart failure. My mom married my dad,
       who came from a “Beaver Cleaver” family, but…even his dad had been
       briefly married to and divorced from someone else before he met the
       woman he had kids and spent his life with, so in the table above,
       he too would not qualify as traditional. My folks married years
       before I was born, but divorced in the ’80s like so many other
       couples. Now I have step siblings and a half sibling. I have my own
       school-aged child, too, whose dad and I by choice did not marry,
       but were always together in one home with our child. But he passed
       away really young–at 41. I subsequently met a wonderful man who now
       lives with me and my kid. Life happens.
          Phoebe  1 year ago
            Actual life is so much more than any categorization can
            embrace. Thank you for this wonderful sharing of real life’s
            flexibility and relevance! Precious and valuable, that’s who
            and what you are.
    Robin  2 years ago
       How does this compare with other countries? Canada, the UK,
       Germany, France?
    a.d.nicholson  2 years ago
       What we thought of as normal…the traditional family life style for
       those of born in the ’30’s and ’40’s ceased to exist along with
       rotary dial phones, refrigerators with ice trays, the A&P, running
       boards on car and TV antennas on the rooftops, all known as “the
       good ole days”.
       We considered that lifestyle as stable and wholesome. Boy, were we
       naive.
       Gene Antuna  2 years ago
       ztuna
       What would be most interesting to me is a study to determine what
       are the main causes of these changes. I am sure there are economics
       and social issues that drive these dramatic changes. What are they?
       What drives them? On the one hand we have all the motives driving
       us away from history and precedence and endorsing things that in
       the past have been questionable: same sex marriage, gay support,
       abortion tolerance and others. We also have a government that
       provides you more food stamps the more kids you have, whether you
       are married or not. Maybe global warming is causing the change,
       maybe tablets and iphones. Go to work pew…. tell me why are these
       changes happening and how can we stop them. That is if we assume
       that kids with no parents is anything good for our society. Right?
            Gary Thomas  2 years ago
            You can find the answers in the December 1956 issue of Life
            magazine, “The American Woman, her achievements and troubles”
          Siddy  2 years ago
            Most American girls are, by the standards of most cultures,
            promiscuous. It is not their fault. They are from a culture
            where their parents expect them to date in high school, but
            are horrified if they want to get married at that age. Even a
            woman who is 23/24 is chastised for getting married too young.
            So what happens is girls have sex with numerous men in their
            prime fertile years (16-25). Since there is so much easy sex,
            it is very difficult for men to give this option up for
            marriage. At best, they might live in with their gf, but not
            marry her. This ensures steady sex, and when the girl is 29/30
            and her prospects have diminished considerably, he can then
            easily go out with someone younger. In some cases, the guy
            might be goaded into marriage, but this arrangement is likely
            to end in divorce. We think the old fashioned way of courtship
            and marriage is bad for women, but is it really? I find that
            much preferable to the current situation, where girls give the
            youthful years of their lives and emotions to guys who then
            kick them to the curb.
               Dee  1 year ago
                 So the problem is acutally the men then? Women never
                 stopped wanting to be in a committed relationship. Maybe
                 the men need to learn to be more chaste?
    Al Devault  2 years ago
       As we “progress” into a more socialistic society there are some
       basic truths that must be addressed. Socialism requires that there
       be no higher power than the “state” which sees to the needs of its
       citizens. Therefore parental guidance is a hindrance to progress as
       is the notion of a power greater than the state, i.e., God.
       Psychologist and psychiatrists have destroyed the concept of a
       conscience by stressing self esteem and the idea that “if it feels
       good it’s not wrong!” The fundamental basis for religion, the
       Golden Rule, has been relegated to the trash can.
       Unless we can restore the concept of a nuclear family as the norm,
       this great experiment in self rule will disappear. That’s not the
       warning of a bible-banging zealot, it is a statement of fact. Our
       Founding Fathers understood this basic truth and built it into the
       fabric of our system. Creeping socialism, fostered by the
       self-centered intellectual academics are bent upon destroying it
       for their own gain.
            Sally Baker McCarty  2 years ago
            You couldn’t be more wrong. Read the article. The presence of
            the so-called “traditional” family has waned as government has
            become less dominant. Their heydays were in the thirties,
            forties,and fifties when taxes were highest and more federal
            programs — CCC, Works Progress, etc. were in place to bring
            our economy back from the great depression and World War II.
            Our DIVORCED president Reagan started moving us away from
            government support and, if you look at the chart, that’s when
            things started getting worse. You don’t really seem to know
            what socialism is, yet you throw the term around like you do.
               bonnie  2 years ago
                 Get real!! Families are changing – not for the
                 better–from govt interference and dependence!! More
                 children equal more govt money!!
          Nicole  1 year ago
            Interesting you mentioned the ‘founding fathers’ when Benjamin
            Franklin had a bastard child with a French woman and Thomas
            Jefferson was raping his slaves. Right.. this is the Godly
            values you’re preaching.
            I do agree with the logic that people have become selfish to
            the point they do not comprehend the impact divorces and
            broken families have on children. I do NOT disagree with
            social welfare but I do disagree with permitting men to skip
            out on their children. If men were jailed for not taking care
            of their children watch how quickly condom use would sky
            rocket.
            Women who have children because they just feel like it are
            extremely selfish if they do not have stability and resources.
            The politically correctness needs to stop. If you choose to
            have children make damn sure you’re prepared to remain
            miserable with a willing partner who will go to work and help
            you care for those kids in every way not just monetary. Same
            goes for men.
            But spare the psycho babble about the founding fathers being
            so ‘Godly’
               Julie  1 year ago
                 There is no sound evidence for the slander of Jefferson.
                 Public school?
    James  2 years ago
       I would love to know what the stats from 1910 would look like. To
       hear my father (born in 1908) tell it, far more people didn’t live
       in intact households in 1915 than in 1970.
       For one thing, no antibiotics or chemotherapy. People who got
       pneumonia, tuberculosis or breast cancer just died, so it was very
       common for a widowed father or mother to be raising their children
       with or without the help of their parents.
       Secondly, people who were in bad financial straits boarded one or
       more kids with relatives or even trusted neighbors. My father had
       an unemployed neighbor whose wife ran away and left him with their
       daughter, for some reason, and the man asked my grandparents to
       raise her until he got a good job elsewhere in the country and was
       on his feet. That lasted a couple of years.
       I would bet fewer children grew up in “traditional families” in the
       1850s or early 1900s than in the 1960s.
          Earthy  2 years ago
            Very well put. In Colonial ( Founding Fathers) days people
            died age 35 so remarriage and foster children was the norm.
    JFE  2 years ago
       Can we change the terminology from “traditional” family to
       “post-war” family or “boomer” family? “Traditional” sounds like the
       family structure has been the same for eons and eons that only
       happen to start changing around 1970. Certainly statisticians at
       Pew should be using more accurate terms.
          Gretchen Livingston  2 years ago
            Yes in fact the ‘Leave it to Beaver’ style family of the 1950s
            and early 1960s was actually an anomaly in many ways, but
            because people so often use the term ‘traditional’ as a
            shorthand way of describing this 1950s-era family structure, I
            used the term myself, albeit in quotes.
                 Sally Baker McCarty  2 years ago
                 True. There is really no one model of the “traditional
                 family.” Especially, given the fact that 40-50% of those
                 “Father Knows Best” family marriages end in divorce.
          Earthy  2 years ago
            Here here, very well put. Launguage has such an effect on our
            thinking. The studies help us to see what is at this point
            happening, not what’s traditional. In my case divorcing to be
            single ment a safer household, and I am not alone. The stats
            are what they are and to push them to fit a TV fantasy might
            be rude, pushy and in many cases dangerous to children.
          William  2 years ago
            So 500-5000 years doesn’t make it traditional?
    Rob the Quiet  2 years ago
       However we wish to spin this, the US Census data spanning the last
       70 years have been potentially skewed by collection methods, data
       architecture, and geographical boundary changes, so even at the
       aggregate level I would hesitate to draw any meaningful conclusions
       as presented here by Pew, not without giving deserved credit to the
       researchers for controlling for such effects. Taking a more
       systemic viewpoint, however, one might consider the state of
       marriage within the constellations of religion, taxation, and
       growing acceptance of gender classes, alongside public perception
       as shaped by media and government policy. As Gary has tagged “the
       realities of life” as a negative, I would propose in turn that a
       society in touch with the “positive reality” of a climate of
       universal respect would do a better job of supporting children
       through education, healthcare and social equity.
          Earthy  2 years ago
            “positive reality” of a climate of universal respect would do
            a better job of supporting children through education,
            healthcare and social equity. LOVE this!
          Julie  1 year ago
            Except that statistics do not bear this out. However, if you
            want life to be more equitable, I’ll send you my PayPal
            address and you can share some of your wealth.
     Alison Stewart  2 years ago
       The ‘traditional’ family is hardly traditional at all. As an avid
       family history hunter, I have discovered (within my own family at
       least) families which have one set of parents are very few and far
       between, and generally only occur post WW2 and before 1980 – just
       about one generational span. The difference between today’s ‘non
       traditional’ families and those of yesteryear, is that today’s
       families have been ‘broken’ by choice rather than death. I have one
       fellow in my family tree who married three times, resulting in
       three sets of children with the three different women (his third
       and final wife was half his age). The reason behind the multiple
       marriages? Death in child birth. Today’s ‘non-traditional families’
       may not have parents who live together – but at least (for the most
       part) they are still alive!
          JFE  2 years ago
            Great point Allison! I just made a comment that what Pew is
            really discussing here is the “post-war” family, and not some
            static “traditional” family that magically stayed intact
            throughout history until sometime in the 1970s.
          terry H  2 years ago
            Allison
            I am curious about your conclusion. What extensive document
            research have you done on the subject? What are your Genealogy
            or History credentials that help to make your position
            credible? What sources did you use?
            Records that would show your position to be incorrect include:
            U.S census records from 1790 to 1940. Records after 1940 are
            sealed.
            These records show an overwhelming evidence of two parent
            families. While there are errors in the Census they tend to be
            spelling errors.
            Church records also reflect two parent families.
            Most counties had at least two county histories. Both will
            contain biographical sketches of some (but not all )
            residents. These records also reflect traditional family
            structure.
            Other records that also will give you information on family
            structure include:Probate records, Immigration records,
            Newspaper records, Death records, marriage records, City
            Directories (directories started in the 1790’s and up to the
            present) Directories exist for most every town and city in the
            United States
            My background:
            Historian M.A. University of New York
            Professional Genealogist since 1970
            Have taught History and Genealogy at the college level since
            1988
          David  2 years ago
            What makes a traditional family is more than that; its that
            everybody knows their rol in this world and have trust in the
            stability and loyalty of marriage.
       Illidan Stormragge  2 years ago
       In my case it’s hard to find any decent long-term partners. People
       are just too different from each other today. Back in the day,
       people were much more similar to each other in looks, background,
       and views. Now everyone is too different. It’s a challenge just
       looking for someone you can imagine raising children with. Then
       again it depends on which part of the country you are born but I am
       talking mainly about city-life.
    Buck Wheaton  2 years ago
       “Young men who grow up in homes without fathers are twice as likely
       to end up in jail as those who come from traditional two-parent
       families…those boys whose fathers were absent from the household
       had double the odds of being incarcerated — even when other factors
       such as race, income, parent education and urban residence were
       held constant.” (Cynthia Harper of the University of Pennsylvania
       and Sara S. McLanahan of Princeton University cited in “Father
       Absence and Youth Incarceration.” Journal of Research on
       Adolescence 14 (September 2004)
    Eddie  2 years ago
       Wonder why the USA is so screwed up these days? Here is the answer.
       As the family goes so goes society. Too bad. USA RIP.
    Itay Banner  2 years ago
       Very interesting analysis. The major shift is between traditional
       marriage towards single parenthood, it seems. But Is this single
       parenthood a result of divorce or of people intentionally opting to
       have a child “on their own”? Do widowers remarry more or less
       during the years? Is there any data on that?
          Gretchen Livingston  2 years ago
            The share of ever-married people who divorce has risen
            dramatically, but so has the share of babies born outside of
            marriage, so both factors have likely contributed to the
            increase in single parenthood. Widowers are typically less
            likely to remarry than people who get divorced.
    Gary  2 years ago
       As kids, it can be very challenging when there is instability in
       the family. Kids can struggle in school in their drive and
       concentration, and even turn to drugs and other habits to escape
       the realities of life. Along with global competition for jobs, it
       is becoming much more difficult to make the income to become a home
       owner, pay for healthcare, education, and with America’s debt
       piling up, we will have to work together as Americans to come up
       with better non-partisan solutions.
          Dave Hahn  2 years ago
            This was forecasted to happen a long time ago. Actually in
            1968 July 25th. I remember that date because it is one day
            before I was born. Paul VI wrote a letter called Humanae
            Vitae. If you look back at what he wrote you can see how
            prophetic he was. The answer to these problems and the many
            other problems we face in our world is to understand the
            sacredness behind human sexuality. I know nobody wants anybody
            to go into anybody else’s bedroom. I don’t either that is an
            invasion of privacy. However if we desire to have a peaceful
            happy world it all hinges on human sexuality. If we get that
            right we get the rest right. Think of it our sexuality is the
            most awesome expression of love and we become co-creators with
            God. When we use our sexuality as a means for our self
            gratification rather than for what God intended it to be it
            throws love off and it throws the whole meaning and purpose of
            procreation off as well. Getting those two things wrong messes
            everything up. Getting those two things right puts us on the
            track for happiness. True happiness because it reveals
            authentic love.
               Earthy  2 years ago
                 Beautiful
          Earhty  2 years ago
            Stability, good point. It is the stability that benifits the
            children and loving stability can and does come in a wide
            variety of combinations. Two heterosexual, biological parents
            is NOT a garentee of stability. There is a great deal of work
            we can do to help people honor each other so to live
            harmoniously.
    B.F.  2 years ago
       And this is the reason that the United States is in moral decline.
       As the traditional family goes, so goes the morality of this
       country.
            Sally Baker McCarty • 2 years ago
            You can’t consider traditional families to be “stable” when
            40-50% of first marriages — and 60% of second marriages — end
            in divorce. So, there really are no traditional families to
            speak of — and haven’t been since the ’40’s.
          Earhty  2 years ago
            Many “traditional “families are disrespectful of women,
            dishonoring and abusive. Children and spouses die behind
            closed doors and I am not in favor of that.
    George Dreckmann  2 years ago
       I would love to see a break down along racial lines if possible. So
       much is made about single parent families in the African American
       community but I am guessing that the numbers will be fairly high in
       the white community as well.
          mplo  1 year ago
            There are a lot of single-parent household families in poor
            white communities, as well. South Boston and Charlestown are
            good examples of such communities, where there’s a high
            percentage of extreme poverty, drug addiction, crime and
            incarceration and unemployment (especially among young males),
            and high percentages of dysfunctional and/or busted-up
            families, especially in the housing projects in those two
            communities.
          Julie  1 year ago
            Here you go. Broken down by
            race.
    Kat  2 years ago
       Can you explain why you folded children from same-sex marriages
       into the single parent category?
          Gretchen Livingston  2 years ago
            Hi Kat, my preference would have been to include kids in
            same-sex marriages in a distinct category, but there is
            concern that same-sex married couples are not being accurately
            identified in the American Community Survey, which is the data
            source I used. I opted instead to include the very small
            number of kids who appear to have same-sex married parents in
            the ‘single’ category which also includes children who are
            living with two unmarried, cohabiting parents.
            If you want to read more about the data issues that have
            arisen in regards to identifying same-sex couples, check out
            this link: pewrsr.ch/1paFYwI, or the work of Gary Gates.
               Lotte  2 years ago
                 Personally I would think that separating out “unmarried
                 cohabiting parents” (whether gay or straight) would be
                 useful.
                 There’s a strong focus in the US on marriage, whereas
                 data from Europe shows that it’s very possible to have a
                 long-term relationship, in which kids are being raised,
                 outside of marriage.
                 I think in such relationships, you have two parents that
                 share responsibilities, which is quite different from
                 having only on parent, so it’d be useful not to sweep
                 them under a single-parent category.
                    Gretchen Livingston  2 years ago
                      Yes cohabiting parents are certainly different than
                      single parents without a partner in the household.
                      Estimates suggest that about 5% of children are
                      living in these types of arrangements. In the U.S.
                      now, cohabitation is not as stable or as
                      institutionalized as it is in Europe, though it will
                      be interesting to see if that changes with time, if
                      it continues to become more prevalent.
               Marisol Fuentes  2 years ago
                 There were several ways you could have handled this
                 without denigrating lesbian and gay families. If you lump
                 LGB married families with a second group consisting of
                 single parent families and yet another group consisting
                 of cohabiting, unmarried families, the resulting group is
                 not accurately described as “Single Parent Family.” Since
                 such a label is false and misleading – not to mention
                 appallingly disrespectful to married same-sex couples –
                 you don’t use that label. You call it something else.
                 Like “Other” or “Various” or anything else that is both
                 accurate and respectful. If you tried really hard, you
                 could probably come up with something better than what
                 you did, which is both inaccurate and disrespectful.
                 Further, it is unclear why “concerns” about the ACS data
                 warrant their complete disregard. If you conclude the
                 data are false, say so and say why. If you haven’t
                 concluded that the ACS data are false, then why are you
                 disregarding them? Why not run the numbers both ways
                 (i.e., breaking out LGB families and folding them into an
                 “Other” category)?
          Jason  2 years ago
            I think they did. That data wasn’t available in earlier years,
            so there’d be no comparison.
          Jeff  2 years ago
            They do that because of sample size and the margin of error.
            If there is too few data points because your asking too
            specific of a question, you keep getting a larger margin of
            error while also receiving a smaller estimate.
            Hypothetically, if you can ask such a specific question, that
            you can have a larger margin of error than an actual estimate.
    Darnell Shelton  2 years ago
       I really love the old shows, Like, Leaver it to Beaver. The Andy
       Griff show, and so on like family base shows. I would love to see
       more LOVE and happiness, and togetherness type shows. All the
       shooting and killing has to STOP somewhere. People do what they see
       on T.V, We have to stared somewhere in order to STOP, somewhere
       (the killings).
          Paul J.  2 years ago
            Darnell: Not to be a kill joy but as far as “old” TV family
            shows go you forgot to list: The Rifleman, Have Gun Will
            Travel, Bonanza and Gunsmoke to name just a small percentage.
            Shows that in more than a few instances ended “differences”
            via physical violence” at best with a fist and at worst with
            guns.
          Earthy  2 years ago
            Yes, I was watching a lovely show called Touch and many
            cultures were seen and connections to love and caring were
            made. Then as time went on the episodes added killings, etc.
            So sad.
<T=1-16.txt>
   Pew Research Center’s Social & Demographic Trends Project RSS Feed
   alternate alternate
   December 17, 2015
Parenting in America
 The American family today
   For children, growing diversity in family living arrangements Family
   life is changing. Two-parent households are on the decline in the
   United States as divorce, remarriage and cohabitation are on the rise.
   And families are smaller now, both due to the growth of single-parent
   households and the drop in fertility. Not only are Americans having
   fewer children, but the circumstances surrounding parenthood have
   changed. While in the early 1960s babies typically arrived within a
   marriage, today fully four-in-ten births occur to women who are single
   or living with a non-marital partner. At the same time that family
   structures have transformed, so has the role of mothers in the
   workplace – and in the home. As more moms have entered the labor force,
   more have become breadwinners – in many cases, primary breadwinners –
   in their families.
   As a result of these changes, there is no longer one dominant family
   form in the U.S. Parents today are raising their children against a
   backdrop of increasingly diverse and, for many, constantly evolving
   family forms. By contrast, in 1960, the height of the post-World War II
   baby boom, there was one dominant family form. At that time 73% of all
   children were living in a family with two married parents in their
   first marriage. By 1980, 61% of children were living in this type of
   family, and today less than half (46%) are. The declining share of
   children living in what is often deemed a “traditional” family has been
   largely supplanted by the rising shares of children living with single
   or cohabiting parents.
   Not only has the diversity in family living arrangements increased
   since the early 1960s, but so has the fluidity of the family.
   Non-marital cohabitation and divorce, along with the prevalence of
   remarriage and (non-marital) recoupling in the U.S., make for family
   structures that in many cases continue to evolve throughout a child’s
   life. While in the past a child born to a married couple – as most
   children were – was very likely to grow up in a home with those two
   parents, this is much less common today, as a child’s living
   arrangement changes with each adjustment in the relationship status of
   their parents. For example, one study found that over a three-year
   period, about three-in-ten (31%) children younger than 6 had
   experienced a major change in their family or household structure, in
   the form of parental divorce, separation, marriage, cohabitation or
   death.
The growing complexity and diversity of families
   The two-parent household in decline The share of children living in a
   two-parent household is at the lowest point in more than half a
   century: 69% are in this type of family arrangement today, compared
   with 73% in 2000 and 87% in 1960. And even children living with two
   parents are more likely to be experiencing a variety of family
   arrangements due to increases in divorce, remarriage and
   cohabitation. Today, fully 62% of children live with two married
   parents – an all-time low. Some 15% are living with parents in a
   remarriage and 7% are living with parents who are cohabiting.^4
   Conversely, the share of children living with one parent stands at 26%,
   up from 22% in 2000 and just 9% in 1960.
   These changes have been driven in part by the fact that Americans today
   are exiting marriage at higher rates than in the past. Now, about
   two-thirds (67%) of people younger than 50 who had ever married are
   still in their first marriage. In comparison, that share was 83% in
   1960.^5 And while among men about 76% of first marriages that began in
   the late 1980s were still intact 10 years later, fully 88% of marriages
   that began in the late 1950s lasted as long, according to analyses of
   Census Bureau data.
The rise of single-parent families, and changes in two-parent families
   Black children and those with less educated parents less likely to be
   living in two-parent households Despite the decline over the past half
   century in children residing with two parents, a majority of kids are
   still growing up in this type of living arrangement. However, less
   than half—46%—are living with two parents who are both in their first
   marriage. This share is down from 61% in 1980 and 73% in 1960.
   An additional 15% of children are living with two parents, at least one
   of whom has been married before. This share has remained relatively
   stable for decades.
   In the remainder of two-parent families, the parents are cohabiting but
   are not married. Today 7% of children are living with cohabiting
   parents; however a far larger share will experience this kind of living
   arrangement at some point during their childhood. For instance,
   estimates suggest that about 39% of children will have had a mother in
   a cohabiting relationship by the time they turn 12; and by the time
   they turn 16, almost half (46%) will have experience with their mother
   cohabiting. In some cases, this will happen because a never-married
   mother enters into a cohabiting relationship; in other cases, a mother
   may enter into a cohabiting relationship after a marital breakup.
   The decline in children living in two-parent families has been offset
   by an almost threefold increase in those living with just one
   parent—typically the mother. Fully one-fourth (26%) of children
   younger than age 18 are now living with a single parent, up from just
   9% in 1960 and 22% in 2000. The share of children living without either
   parent stands at 5%; most of these children are being raised by
   grandparents.
   The majority of white, Hispanic and Asian children are living in
   two-parent households, while less than half of black children are
   living in this type of arrangement. Furthermore, at least half of Asian
   and white children are living with two parents both in their first
   marriage. The shares of Hispanic and black children living with two
   parents in their first marriage are much lower.
   Asian children are the most likely to be living with both parents—fully
   84% are, including 71% who are living with parents who are both in
   their first marriage. Some 13% of Asian kids are living in a
   single-parent household, while 11% are living with remarried parents,
   and just 3% are living with parents who are cohabiting.
   Roughly eight-in-ten (78%) white children are living with two parents,
   including about half (52%) with parents who are both in their first
   marriage and 19% with two parents in a remarriage; 6% have parents who
   are cohabiting. About one-in-five (19%) white children are living with
   a single parent.
   Among Hispanic children, two-thirds live with two parents. All told,
   43% live with two parents in their first marriage, while 12% are living
   with parents in a remarriage, and 11% are living with parents who are
   cohabiting. Some 29% of Hispanic children live with a single parent.
   The living arrangements of black children stand in stark contrast to
   the other major racial and ethnic groups. The majority – 54% – are
   living with a single parent. Just 38% are living with two parents,
   including 22% who are living with two parents who are both in their
   first marriage. Some 9% are living with remarried parents, and 7% are
   residing with parents who are cohabiting.
   Children with at least one college-educated parent are far more likely
   to be living in a two-parent household, and to be living with two
   parents in a first marriage, than are kids whose parents are less
   educated. Fully 88% of children who have at least one parent with a
   bachelor’s degree or more are living in a two-parent household,
   including 67% who are living with two parents in their first marriage.
   In comparison, some 68% of children who have a parent with some college
   experience are living in a two-parent household, and just 40% are
   living with parents who are both in a first marriage. About six-in-ten
   (59%) children who have a parent with a high school diploma are in a
   two-parent household, including 33% who are living with parents in
   their first marriage. Meanwhile, just over half (54%) of children whose
   parents lack a high school diploma are living in a two-parent
   household, including 33% whose parents are in their first marriage.
Blended families
   One-in-six kids is living in a blended family According to the most
   recent data, 16% of children are living in what the Census Bureau terms
   “blended families” – a household with a stepparent, stepsibling or
   half-sibling. This share has remained stable since the early 1990s,
   when reliable data first became available. At that time 15% of kids
   lived in blended family households. All told, about 8% are living with
   a stepparent, and 12% are living with stepsiblings or half-siblings.
   Many, but not all, remarriages involve blended families. According
   to data from the National Center for Health Statistics, six-in-ten
   (63%) women in remarriages are in blended families, and about half of
   these remarriages involve stepchildren who live with the remarried
   couple.
   Hispanic, black and white children are equally likely to live in a
   blended family. About 17% of Hispanic and black kids are living with a
   stepparent, stepsibling or a half-sibling, as are 15% of white kids.
   Among Asian children, however, 7% – a far smaller share – are living in
   blended families. This low share is consistent with the finding that
   Asian children are more likely than others to be living with two
   married parents, both of whom are in their first marriage.
The shrinking American family
   Among women, fertility is declining Fertility in the U.S. has been on
   the decline since the end of the post-World War II baby boom, resulting
   in smaller families. In the mid-1970s, a 40% plurality of mothers who
   had reached the end of their childbearing years had given birth to four
   or more children. Now, a similar share (41%) of mothers at the end
   of their childbearing years has had two children, and just 14% have had
   four or more children.
   At the same time, the share of mothers ages 40 to 44 who have had only
   one child has doubled, from 11% in 1976 to 22% today. The share of
   mothers with three children has remained virtually unchanged at about a
   quarter.
   Women’s increasing educational attainment and labor force
   participation, and improvements in contraception, not to mention the
   retreat from marriage, have all likely played a role in shrinking
   family size.
   Among Hispanics and the less educated, bigger families Family size
   varies markedly across races and ethnicities. Asian moms have the
   lowest fertility, and Hispanic mothers have the highest. About 27% of
   Asian mothers and one-third of white mothers near the end of their
   childbearing years have had three or more children. Among black mothers
   at the end of their childbearing years, four-in-ten have had three or
   more children, as have fully half (50%) of Hispanic mothers.
   Similarly, a gap in fertility exists among women with different levels
   of educational attainment, despite recent increases in the fertility of
   highly educated women. For example, just 27% of mothers ages 40 to 44
   with a post-graduate degree such as a master’s, professional or
   doctorate degree have borne three or more children, as have 32% of
   those with a bachelor’s degree. Among mothers in the same age group
   with a high school diploma or some college, 38% have had three or more
   kids, while among moms who lack a high school diploma, the majority –
   55% – have had three or more children.
The rise of births to unmarried women and multi-partner fertility
   Not only are women having fewer children today, but they are having
   them under different circumstances than in the past. While at one time
   virtually all births occurred within marriage, these two life events
   are now far less intertwined. And while people were much more likely to
   “mate for life” in the past, today a sizable share have children with
   more than one partner – sometimes within marriage, and sometimes
   outside of it.
   Births to unmarried women
   The decoupling of marriage and childbearing In 1960, just 5% of all
   births occurred outside of marriage. By 1970, this share had doubled to
   11%, and by 2000 fully one-third of births occurred to unmarried women.
   Non-marital births continued to rise until the mid-2000s, when the
   share of births to unmarried women stabilized at around 40%.
   Not all babies born outside of a marriage are necessarily living with
   just one parent, however. The majority of these births now occur to
   women who are living with a romantic partner, according to analyses of
   the National Survey of Family Growth. In fact, over the past 20 years,
   virtually all of the growth in births outside of marriage has been
   driven by increases in births to cohabiting women.
   Researchers have found that, while marriages are less stable than they
   once were, they remain more stable than cohabiting unions. Past
   analysis indicates that about one-in-five children born within a
   marriage will experience the breakup of that marriage by age 9. In
   comparison, fully half of children born within a cohabiting union will
   experience the breakup of their parents by the same age. At the same
   time, children born into cohabiting unions are more likely than those
   born to single moms to someday live with two married parents. Estimates
   suggest that 66% will have done so by the time they are 12, compared
   with 45% of those who were born to unmarried non-cohabiting moms.
   The share of births occurring outside of marriage varies markedly
   across racial and ethnic groups. Among black women, 71% of births are
   now non-marital, as are about half (53%) of births to Hispanic women.
   In contrast, 29% of births to white women occur outside of a marriage.
   For the less educated, more births outside of marriage Racial
   differences in educational attainment explain some, but not all, of the
   differences in non-marital birth rates.
   New mothers who are college-educated are far more likely than less
   educated moms to be married. In 2014 just 11% of women with a college
   degree or more who had a baby in the prior year were unmarried. In
   comparison, this share was about four times as high (43%) for new
   mothers with some college but no college degree. About half (54%) of
   those with only a high school diploma were unmarried when they gave
   birth, as were about six-in-ten (59%) new mothers who lacked a high
   school diploma.
Multi-partner fertility
   Related to non-marital births is what researchers call “multi-partner
   fertility.” This measure reflects the share of people who have had
   biological children with more than one partner, either within or
   outside of marriage. The increase in divorces, separations, remarriages
   and serial cohabitations has likely contributed to an increase in
   multi-partner fertility. Estimates vary, given data limitations, but
   analysis of longitudinal data indicates that almost 20% of women near
   the end of their childbearing years have had children by more than one
   partner, as have about three-in-ten (28%) of those with two or more
   children. Research indicates that multi-partner fertility is
   particularly common among blacks, Hispanics, and the less educated.
Parents today: older and better educated
   While parents today are far less likely to be married than they were in
   the past, they are more likely to be older and to have more education.
   In 1970, the average new mother was 21 years old. Since that time, that
   age has risen to 26 years. The rise in maternal age has been driven
   largely by declines in teen births. Today, 7% of all births occur to
   women under the age of 20; as recently as 1990, the share was almost
   twice as high (13%).
   While age at first birth has increased across all major race and ethnic
   groups, substantial variation persists across these groups. The average
   first-time mom among whites is now 27 years old. The average age at
   first birth among blacks and Hispanics is quite a bit younger – 24
   years – driven in part by the prevalence of teen pregnancy in these
   groups. Just 5% of births to whites take place prior to age 20, while
   this share reaches 11% for non-Hispanic blacks and 10% for Hispanics.
   On the other end of the spectrum, fully 45% of births to whites are to
   women ages 30 or older, versus just 31% among blacks and 36% among
   Hispanics.
   Mothers today are also far better educated than they were in the past.
   While in 1960 just 18% of mothers with infants at home had any college
   experience, today that share stands at 67%. This trend is driven in
   large part by dramatic increases in educational attainment for all
   women. While about half (49%) of women ages 15 to 44 in 1960 lacked a
   high school diploma, today the largest share of women (61%) has at
   least some college experience, and just 19% lack a high school diploma.
Mothers moving into the workforce
   Among mothers, rising labor force participation In addition to the
   changes in family structure that have occurred over the past several
   decades, family life has been greatly affected by the movement of more
   and more mothers into the workforce. This increase in labor force
   participation is a continuation of a century-long trend; rates of labor
   force participation among married women, particularly married white
   women, have been on the rise since at least the turn of the 20th
   century. While the labor force participation rates of mothers have more
   or less leveled off since about 2000, they remain far higher than they
   were four decades ago.
   In 1975, the first year for which data on the labor force participation
   of mothers are available, less than half of mothers (47%) with children
   younger than 18 were in the labor force, and about a third of those
   with children younger than 3 years old were working outside of the
   home. Those numbers changed rapidly, and, by 2000, 73% of moms were in
   the labor force. Labor force participation today stands at 70% among
   all mothers of children younger than 18, and 64% of moms with
   preschool-aged children. About three-fourths of all employed moms are
   working full time.
   Among mothers with children younger than 18, blacks are the most likely
   to be in the labor force –about three-fourths are. In comparison, this
   share is 70% among white mothers. Some 64% of Asian mothers and 62% of
   Hispanic mother are in the workforce. The relatively high proportions
   of immigrants in these groups likely contribute to their lower labor
   force involvement – foreign-born moms are much less likely to be
   working than their U.S.-born counterparts.
   The more education a mother has, the more likely she is to be in the
   labor force. While about half (49%) of moms who lack a high school
   diploma are working, this share jumps to 65% for those with a high
   school diploma. Fully 75% of mothers with some college are working, as
   are 79% of those with a college degree or more.
   Along with their movement into the labor force, women, even more than
   men, have been attaining higher and higher levels of education. In
   fact, among married couples today, it is more common for the wife to
   have more education than the husband, a reversal of previous patterns.
   These changes, along with the increasing share of single-parent
   families, mean that more than ever, mothers are playing the role of
   breadwinner—often the primary breadwinner—within their families.
   In four-in-ten families, mom is the primary breadwinner Today, 40% of
   families with children under 18 at home include mothers who earn the
   majority of the family income. This share is up from 11% in 1960 and
   34% in 2000. The bulk of these breadwinner moms—8.3 million—are either
   unmarried or are married and living apart from their spouse.^19 The
   remaining 4.9 million, who are married and living with their spouse,
   earn more than their husbands. While families with married breadwinner
   moms tend to have higher median incomes than married-parent families
   where the father earns more ($88,000 vs. $84,500), families headed by
   unmarried mothers have incomes far lower than unmarried father
   families. In 2014, the median annual income for unmarried mother
   families was just $24,000.
   Breadwinner moms are particularly common in black families, spurred by
   very high rates of single motherhood. About three-fourths (74%) of
   black moms are breadwinner moms. Most are unmarried or living apart
   from their spouse (61%), and the remainder (13%) earn more than their
   spouse. Among Hispanic moms, 44% are the primary breadwinner; 31% are
   unmarried, while 12% are married and making more than their husbands.
   For white mothers, 38% are the primary breadwinners—20% are unmarried
   moms, and 18% are married and have income higher than that of their
   spouses. Asian families are less likely to have a woman as the main
   breadwinner in their families, presumably due to their extremely low
   rates of single motherhood. Just 11% of Asian moms are unmarried. The
   share who earn more than their husbands—20%— is somewhat higher than
   for the other racial and ethnic groups.
   The flip side of the movement of mothers into the labor force has been
   a dramatic decline in the share of mothers who are now stay-at-home
   moms. Some 29% of all mothers living with children younger than 18 are
   at home with their children. This marks a modest increase since 1999,
   when 23% of moms were home with their children, but a long-term decline
   of about 20 percentage points since the late 1960s when about half of
   moms were at home.
   While the image of “stay-at-home mom” may conjure images of “Leave It
   to Beaver” or the highly affluent “opt-out mom”, the reality of
   stay-at-home motherhood today is quite different for a large share of
   families. In roughly three-in-ten of stay-at-home-mom families, either
   the father is not working or the mother is single or cohabiting. As
   such, stay-at-home mothers are generally less well off than working
   mothers in terms of education and income. Some 49% of stay-at-home
   mothers have at most a high-school diploma compared with 30% among
   working mothers. And the median household income for families with a
   stay-at-home mom and a full-time working dad was $55,000 in 2014,
   roughly half the median income for families in which both parents work
   full-time ($102,400).
     “Parent” here is used to mean an adult parental figure. Except as
       noted, throughout this chapter a parent may be the biological or
       adoptive parent, or the spouse or partner of a biological or
       adoptive parent (i.e., a stepparent). The marital status of the
       parents alone doesn’t reveal definitively what their relationship
       is to their children. For instance, if a child is living with two
       parents, both of whom are in their first marriage: it may be the
       case that both of those parents are the biological parents of that
       child; or it may be the case that the mother is the biological
       parent of that child and that she later entered into her first
       marriage to the child’s (now) stepfather; or it may be the case
       that the father is the biological parent of that child and that he
       entered into his first marriage to the child’s (now) stepmother. ↩
     Any marriage in which at least one of the partners has been married
       previously is defined as a remarriage. 
     While the divorce rate has risen since 1960, the trend in divorce
       since 1980 is less clear. Stevenson and Wolfers maintain that
       divorce rates have declined since that time, while Kennedy and
       Ruggles find that the divorce rate has continued its rise. 
     Among women, 73% of marriages that began in the late 1980s lasted
       for at least 10 years, compared with 87% of those that began in the
       late 1950s. 
     For the purposes of this report, same-sex couples are grouped with
       other-sex couples. While same-sex parenting and marriage has become
       more prevalent, estimates suggest that less than 1% of couple
       households with children are headed by same-sex couples; and that,
       in total, fewer than 130,000 same-sex couples are currently raising
       children younger than 18. See here for more on the challenges of
       counting same-sex couples in the U.S. 
     Data on the share of parents in their first marriage are not
       available for 1990 or 2000. 
     In 2014, 83% of children living with only one parent were living
       with their mother, according to the American Community Survey. 
    The dramatic changes in kids’ living arrangements in the recent
       past are in sharp contrast to historical trends, which reveal
       remarkable stability. From 1880 to around 1970, the share of
       children living with two parents consistently hovered around 85%,
       while the share living with a single mother remained in the single
       digits. Even smaller shares were living with no parent, or with a
       father only. 
    Parental education is based on the highest educational attainment
       of coresident parents. So if a child lives with both parents, and
       the father has a bachelor’s degree, and the mother has a high
       school diploma, that child is classified as having a parent with a
       bachelor’s degree. A child living with a single parent is
       classified based on that parent’s education. The 5% of children who
       are not living with their parents are excluded from this analysis.
    These data are based on self-reports. It may be the case that some
       families that began as stepfamilies may no longer identify as such,
       if the stepparent went on to adopt the children. And, of course,
       many families may be “blended” but may not include parents who are
       formally married; those families are likely not captured in this
       measure. 
    While blended families all involve remarriage, not all remarriages
       produce blended families. Remarriages involving spouses who have no
       children from prior relationships would not create blended
       families. 
    Women at the end of their childbearing years are often defined as
       those ages 40-44. While it is still possible to have children
       beyond this point, about 99.8% of babies are born to women younger
       than 45, and 97% are born to women younger than 40. Women who
       reached the end of their childbearing years in the mid-1970s came
       of age during the height of the post-World War II baby boom, a
       period typified by unusually high fertility. 
    While they are not included in this analysis due to data
       limitations, many women who do not bear children are indeed
       mothers—either adoptive mothers or stepmothers. 
    Preliminary 2014 data indicate that the share of non-marital births
       declined slightly for the first time in almost 20 years, due
       largely to changes in age composition among childbearing-aged
       women. 
    Given the limitations of data regarding the fertility of men, the
       focus here is on fertility of women. 
    Only families where the mother or father is the household head are
       included in the analysis of breadwinner moms. 
    For the remainder of this chapter, “unmarried mothers” refers to
       those who are not married, or who are married but living apart from
       their spouse. 
    The vast majority of stay-at-home parents are indeed mothers, but a
       growing share of fathers are joining the ranks, as well. In 2012,
       16% of stay-at-home parents were dads, up from 10% in 1989. Like
       stay-at-home mothers, stay-at-home dads tend to be less well off
       than their working counterparts; they are far more likely to lack a
       high school diploma (22% vs. 10%), and far more likely to be living
       in poverty (47% vs. 8%). 
<T=1-17.txt>
Opinion
Friday, March 26, 2010, 10:02
by Ann Marie Mangion
The notion of family life
   The United Nations broadly defines a family as "any combination of two
   or more persons who are bound together by ties of mutual consent, birth
   and/or adoption or placement and who, together, assume responsibility
   for, inter alia, the care and maintenance of group members, the
   addition of new members through procreation or adoption, the
   socialisation of children and the social control of members" (Proinsias
   de Rossa - Social Welfare Minister's speech, February 14, 1995; Dail
   Debates, Volume 449 - The United Nations and the Irish Steering
   Committee of 1994 concentrated on a broad definition of the family as
   the fundamental element of society).
   This definition is very broad and encompasses any sort of relationship
   where individuals assume the obligation to live together. This is done
   in order not to exclude anyone from forming part of the term "family".
   The term "family" is found in article 23 of the International Covenant
   on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). Article 23(1) states that "the
   family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is
   entitled to protection by society and the state". Family is said to be
   natural and fundamental, yet, it does not state what constitutes a
   family.
   However, sub-article 2 of the same article adds that "the right of men
   and women of marriageable age to marry and to form a family shall be
   recognised". Although there is no direct definition, indirectly the
   covenant seems to indicate that a family is formed by a marriageable
   union of a man and a woman.
   Marriage and family are seen synonymous as well in article 10 of the
   International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
   (ICESCR). However, they still do not provide a strict definition of
   what a family is.
   Can a family be equated to family life or family environment? The
   concepts of family life can be found in the European Convention on
   Human Rights (ECHR) and family environment is found in the Convention
   on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and the African Charter on the Rights
   and Welfare of the Child.
   The CRC in its preamble states that a child should "grow up in a family
   environment". However, both conventions and the African charter do not
   define what constitutes family life and family environment. Yet, case
   law of the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) seems to point to the
   notion that family life includes also de facto families. In the
   landmark judgment of Marcks vs Belgium (1979), the ECtHR declared that
   family life between an unmarried mother and her child is created by the
   fact of birth itself.
   Geraldine Van Bueren adds that "there is an automatic and immediate
   transformation of the biological bond into a legal one and this
   attracts the application of article 8 (of the ECHR)" (Child Rights in
   Europe, Council of Europe Publishing, 2007, 118).
   In Boughanemi vs France (1996), the ECtHR stated that, even though
   there is no cohabitation, the bond between a parent and his or her
   child, whether such child is born in or out of wedlock, still
   constitutes family life.
   The relationship between a parent and a child suffices as the
   fundamental constituent of family life.
   The ECtHR declared that the relationship between two adults and their
   daughter who lived together but couldn't marry, because at that time
   divorce was not allowed in Ireland, constitutes, for all intents and
   purposes, family life as stated in Johnston and Others vs Ireland
   (1986).
   Family life depends upon the existence of close personal ties.
   The ECHR extends its protection under article 8 (the right to respect
   one's private and family life) to unmarried parents even if such
   non-marital relationship has been terminated as stated in Sommerfield
   vs Germany (2003).
   Can relationships between children and grandparents also fall within
   the ambit of family life? In Price vs UK (1982), the ECtHR ruled that
   blood ties only are not enough to build family life between
   grandparents and grandchildren. In 2000, the ECtHR, in L vs Finland,
   made it known that the grandparental bond does not have the same
   significance as the bond parents have with their children.
   Neil Ferguson et al state that the existence of family life needs to be
   seen from the child's and parents' perspectives. And he adds that in
   order to benefit from article 8's family life the content and the
   nature of the grandparental relationship needs to be studied
   (Grandparenting In Divorced Families, Bristol, 2004, 74).
   In Cauchi vs Direttur tas-Sigurtà Soċjali (October 10, 2005), the Court
   of Appeal stated that the test to assess the term "family" under the
   Social Security Act is one defined by cohabitation. Therefore, two
   unmarried cohabitating persons are deemed to be a "family" under the
   Social Security Act even though under the Civil Code they cannot
   qualify.
   In a range of cases, the ECtHR stated that various factors may be
   decisive in deciding what amounts to family life such as whether the
   couple live together, the length of their relationship and whether they
   have demonstrated their commitment to each other by having children or
   by any other means.
   It seems that the notion of family life is taken to embrace not only
   marriage-based relationships but also relationships which are de facto,
   that is, where parties are living together outside marriage as stated
   in the Yearbook of the European Convention on Human Rights 1994 Vol 37
   (The Hague, 1996, 259).
<T=1-18.txt>
The Changing American Family
   Fewer than 25 percent of American households are made up of a married
   man and woman with their children. So what do families look like now?
Shifting Demographics
   If all you did was watch television commercials for minivans, you might
   think that the traditional All-American family was still intact -- Mom,
   Dad, dog, and the 2.5 kids buckle up and drive off every day on TV. But
   ads (depending on your perspective) are either selling aspirations or
   guilt: This is the family you're supposed to have, supposed to want.
   In real life, in big cities and in smaller towns, families are single
   moms, they're stepfamilies, they're boyfriends and girlfriends not
   getting married at the moment, they're foster parents, they're two dads
   or two moms, they're a village. In real life, in 2005, families are
   richly diverse.
   And are only getting more so.
   In fact, the very definition of "family" is changing dramatically. The
   year 2000 marked the first time that less than a quarter (23.5 percent)
   of American households were made up of a married man and woman and one
   or more of their children -- a drop from 45 percent in 1960. This
   number is expected to fall to 20 percent by 2010.
Why the Changes?
   The change in the makeup of the American family is the result of two
   primary factors, says Martin O'Connell, chief of fertility and family
   statistics at the U.S. Census Bureau, which collects such figures every
   10 years. First, more babies (about a third) are now born out of
   wedlock, and second, divorce rates continue to climb so that nearly
   half of all marriage contracts are broken.
What's Normal Now?
   The overall attitude toward relationships and commitment has shifted.
   More than half of female high school seniors say that having a child
   outside of marriage is acceptable, according to a recent poll from the
   University of Michigan Survey Research Center. And census data shows
   that 26 percent of all households are made up of a single person,
   living alone (as opposed to 13 percent back in 1960).
   While a good portion of these singles are likely senior citizens,
   others are younger career folks who don't feel yesteryear's societal
   pressure to rush into partnerships.
   "In 2002, the median age for a woman's first marriage was 27," says
   O'Connell. That's five years older than it was even in 1980. Sometimes
   young singles establish their individual identities so solidly that
   they never marry, even if they have children. These couples may partner
   up -- but without the papers.
   Adoption, no marriage: Such was the case with Steve Wilson and Erin
   Mayes, a couple in their mid-30s living in Austin, Texas. They've been
   together for 10 years, own a home together, and though they've talked
   about it, have decided it isn't necessary to get married. Still, they
   wanted a family and, last June, adopted a baby boy.
   Wedding after baby: Another example is Jared and Lori Goldman, of San
   Mateo, California. Their relationship was relatively new when Lori got
   pregnant in 2000. They agreed to raise the child together but didn't
   get engaged. But not long after their daughter was born, Jared
   proposed. "Reverse order worked better for us," he says. Lori agrees:
   "Our wedding felt more meaningful happening on its own time instead of
   on the traditional schedule. What girl wants a shotgun wedding?"
   Single moms on the rise: Of course, because currently one-third of all
   babies are born out of wedlock, it's no surprise that many mothers
   remain single. When she got pregnant, Pam Hansell says her boyfriend
   initially seemed supportive. Then he began dodging her phone calls and
   e-mails, and eventually cut contact. Deeply hurt but determined to give
   her child a good life, Hansell moved in with her parents, outside of
   Philadelphia, and gave birth to a daughter in March. "When I realized I
   couldn't count on the father, it was devastating. I'm so thankful that
   family and friends have stepped in," Hansell says.
   Two dads: Finally, Dean Larkin and Paul Park are living out another
   common-in-today's-world scenario. They live together in Los Angeles,
   and Larkin has a 21-year-old daughter from a previous marriage. Now he
   and Park are planning a second child, via a surrogate mother. They'd
   like to marry, but gay marriage is not legal nationally.
Reactions from the Trenches
   Perhaps no one has a better ringside seat to all these untraditional
   family setups than those involved in the childbirth industry. "I've
   seen unmarried couples come in, lesbian couples, mothers who have been
   here with one father and then come in with a new father -- the family
   dynamics and structures have changed a lot over the past 25 years,"
   says Barbara Hotelling, president of Lamaze International and a
   long-time childbirth instructor.
   Based in Rochester Hills, Michigan, Hotelling probably sees a good
   cross section of American families and, while she doesn't ask the
   marital status of her students, estimates that around 20 percent are
   unmarried, compared with maybe 5 percent when she first began her
   career.
   Hotelling has shifted her language with the times. She says she used to
   call her students moms and dads, but now, "I say 'moms and partners'
   and hope nobody screams."
The Marriage Advantage
   According to 1999 figures from the Population Resource Center, families
   in which the mother is the head of the household are, by and large,
   living on less. Because of the wage gap, female-headed households earn,
   on average, $26,164 a year; male-headed households earn $41,138 per
   year; and married households earn $56,827 per year.
   Then, there are the more than 1,100 federal benefits that married
   households can take advantage of during a lifetime.
   Under the Family and Medical Leave Act, married partners can take leave
   from work when their spouse gets sick; unmarried partners cannot.
   Federal Medicaid laws permit only married couples to keep their homes
   when one partner needs nursing home care; an unmarried partner can lose
   the house. When a married person dies, the spouse inherits Social
   Security benefits; an unmarried partner gets nothing.
   All told, according to the Los Angeles-based American Association for
   Single People and cited in an October 2003 Business Week article, with
   health benefits, retirement, and so on, married families can "earn" 25
   percent more than unmarried ones.
Marriage Penalties
   How does this stack up with the so-called "marriage penalty" that
   people complain about at tax time? Two of the major tax penalties were
   eliminated in 2003, says Fred Grant, a senior tax analyst at Turbo Tax,
   a corporation that produces electronic tax preparation programs.
   Used to be, married couples filing jointly had a lower standard
   deduction than two singles living together, and married couples (in the
   lowest two income brackets) got bumped into a higher tax bracket on a
   combined income, thus paying more taxes overall. Now, only the richest
   three tiers pay more as marrieds than as cohabiters.
   There are a few other penalties married couples face (for example, they
   need a lower combined income to qualify for a $1,000 per-child tax
   credit), but, Grant warns, taxes are such a complex soup incorporating
   home ownership, itemizations, and more, it's almost impossible to state
   assertively which type of family comes out ahead tax-wise.
Money, Marriage -- and Children
   What is safe to say is that the kids of untraditional families can wind
   up penalized. Of course, there are many possible scenarios. In the best
   cases, kids living with, for instance, only their mother also receive
   financial support from a father. But as many single moms will tell you,
   not all fathers pay their full share of childcare costs.
   Statistics also show that there are many kids lacking basic health
   insurance -- at last count, about 8.4 million, according to the U.S.
   Census. All told, there are 11 million children (16 percent) living at
   or below the poverty line, and while that's not broken down into the
   number of kids with married or unmarried parents, it's a sure bet that
   many impoverished kids are in untraditional families.
Single and Satisfied
   Though a growing number of couples are fine with never getting married,
   the vast majority of cohabiting relationships change into either
   marriage or separation after an average of 18 months, says Susan Brown,
   PhD, associate professor of sociology at Bowling Green State
   University's Center for Family and Demographic Research and a
   contributor to the 2002 collection of essays and studies Just Living
   Together. She says that according to some research, there may be a
   psychological cost to raising a family without the mental safety net of
   marriage.
   "I've found that cohabiters are more depressed than married people, and
   it seems to be because of relationship instability," Brown says. That
   means most unmarried parents who live together get married eventually
   -- or break up and seek other potential spouses.
The Growth of Gay Families
   According to the Urban Institute, 2 in 5 gay or lesbian couples live in
   a house with children under age 18. But because the U.S. Census Bureau
   doesn't figure same-sex relationships into their data, it's hard to
   pinpoint exactly how many children are living with gay or lesbian
   parents.
   The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) places its bet between one and
   nine million children, which means somewhere between 1.4 percent and
   12.5 percent of all kids. While the AAP issued a statement saying that
   children of same-sex couples deserve two legally recognized parents, no
   state can grant federal marriage benefits to these couples, and only
   these states -- California, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and
   Vermont -- allows state rights, such as the guarantee that unmarried
   parents can visit a child in the hospital.
   Two moms, one donor: One couple, Sue Hamilton and Christy Sumner, used
   a sperm bank when they decided to have a baby. While the couple isn't
   able to marry in their home state of California, Hamilton recently
   adopted their daughter, which is legal there. Negotiating state laws
   puts extra stress on gay and lesbian families, but Hamilton and Sumner
   have encountered a few sympathizers. "One of the hospital workers fell
   in love with our family," Hamilton says.
   "She thought it was nutty that birth certificates have to read 'mother'
   and 'father,' and typed up a mock certificate that just has our names
   on it."
Can Your Employer Help You?
   Some large employers are scrambling to catch up to how families are
   changing. Traditionally, companies required workers to be married if
   they wanted benefits for household members. But now, "in order to
   attract and retain quality employees, the benefits need to be more
   flexible," says Kevin Marrs of the American Society of Employers, an
   organization that tracks information for firms in the Detroit area. He
   concedes, however, that because domestic partner benefits can cost a
   company more money, many small independent businesses don't yet offer
   them.
Families, Privileges, and the Law
   Few laws protect untraditional families. In fact, at this point federal
   laws don't prohibit discrimination based on marital status, so
   unmarried families can and do face discrimination in these key areas:
      housing
      employment
      adoption
      insurance
      child custody
      hospital visitation
      the ability to make a decision for a partner or child in an
      emergency
   Wilson and Mayes are lucky -- their decision to not get married is made
   easier by the fact that their state, Texas, permits common-law marriage
   status. Declaring that lets them enjoy joint health coverage through
   Mayes's employer, and it smoothed the adoption process. If all states
   had such laws, a great many people would benefit. But only 16 states
   recognize common-law marriage -- and three of those require couples to
   prove they've been living together since the '90s, according to Nolo
   Press, which publishes plain-English legal information.
Why Aren't Laws Catching Up to How We're Living?
   To many politicians, pushing for marriage is easier than changing laws.
   President Bush proposed spending $1.5 billion over five years on a
   Healthy Marriage Initiative to encourage couples (especially in poor
   communities) to marry. The money hasn't been approved, but the
   Department of Health and Human Services is running the program.
   "Bush [advocates] marriage among low-income populations as a way to
   ameliorate poverty. But I'm not sure that's the answer," Brown says.
   Daniel Lichter, a sociology professor at Ohio State University, goes
   even further. In his 2003 study, "Is Marriage a Panacea?" he shows that
   poverty rates for disadvantaged women who marry and then divorce are
   actually higher than for women who never marry in the first place. (One
   thought is that the loss of financial stability as a direct result of
   divorce -- which costs money in itself -- may set women back.) So
   getting married doesn't always ease the financial burden of raising
   kids, and it certainly doesn't help open the rigid boundaries of what
   "counts" as a family.
   The answer probably lies in making sure all families -- whether Mom and
   Dad drive the minivan to soccer practice or Mom piles her stepkids onto
   the city bus -- receive the same kinds of rights, benefits, and
   treatment. Access to affordable childcare and living wages are also
   more direct solutions.
   Discrimination against unmarried families is still real. But those
   families also have the love and courage it takes to press for change.
   Says Hamilton, "It really doesn't matter what kind of relationship the
   parents are in -- what matters is the love they have for their child.
   That is what makes a family."
   Cris Beam is a writer in New York City.
   Originally published in American Baby magazine, May 2005.
<T=1-19.txt>
                        The Changing American Family
               Dramatic changes in the shape of U.S. families
         have left us with old policies in a world of new realities
                            By Arvonne S. Fraser
             One of the articles in Caring For Families 
               Originally published in Spring 1989 on page 13
                Copyright (c)1989, 1997 by Context Institute
   As we head into the 21st century, changes within and among families in
   the U.S. are striking at the heart of our notions about life and the
   way it functions. Such things as longer life spans, the advent of safe
   and effective birth control, women’s increasing participation in the
   paid labor force, and a dramatic increase in divorce rates are
   reshaping family life in the late 20th century. The new realities of
   family life are in sharp contrast with idealized notions of the family
   that have developed over centuries. Conflicts in the way we perceive
   the family are creating profound contradictions in public policy. If
   the family is to be a healthy component in society, as it must be for
   society to survive, we need to understand anew what family is and what
   it is becoming.
THE CHANGING FAMILY
   The range of variation in "families" throughout history and across
   cultures is enormous. Nevertheless, there are certain major themes
   within all this variation: Families are a set of primary relationships
   – biological, emotional, social, economic, and legal. Families are also
   a collection of individuals with differing needs and concerns living in
   complicated relationships with each other and with society. Families
   generally are expected to provide their members mutual economic,
   physical, and emotional support, meeting the human needs for food,
   shelter, and intimacy. Families also carry on tradition and culture
   and, in some instances, pass on property to the next generation.
   If our discussions of families began from this broad understanding, we
   would have a useful starting point. Unfortunately, many discussions
   about families, and much of our policy and literature, assume a much
   more narrow definition of a "normal" family: a caretaking mother,
   breadwinning father, and one or more minor children. Many of today’s
   senior citizens formed such families and many middle-aged adults grew
   up in them, but the composition and characteristics of families have
   changed considerably since World War II, especially in the last two
   decades. Although close to 75% of U.S. citizens still live in
   family-based households (see figure below):
      Only 9% of U.S. households fit that old definition of the "normal"
       family.
      A majority of families have no children under age 18.
      More than 25% of all families with children are single parent
       families; almost all of these have a female head of the household.
      72% of women in the child-bearing years are employed. By 1995,
       labor force statisticians predict the proportion will increase to
       81%.
      Out of wedlock births (often by older women) are now about 20% of
       all births and virtually all such children are kept by the mother
       rather than put up for adoption.
      For the first time, the U.S. is generationally top-heavy: there are
       more grandparents than grandchildren.
THE CHANGING WORKFORCE
   A major factor affecting all these statistics has been the steady shift
   of women into the paid labor force. This profound shift has happened
   within a single human lifespan, too fast for many of our institutions
   and attitudes to keep pace. A large number of today’s older senior
   citizen women have been dependent housewives for most of their adult
   lives. They were raised expecting to find a husband who could support
   them, and for a majority of this generation the breadwinning
   husband/caretaking wife model worked.
   Their daughters were often employed before their marriage and until
   they had children. After the children were in school, many reentered
   the workforce, demonstrating that their involvement in the workforce
   was not a temporary aberration. In 1965, 41.1% of women aged 35-44 were
   in the paid labor force. Twenty-one years later this same cohort of
   women (now 55-64 years old) were represented in almost the same
   proportion, 42.3%. (An interesting question is to what extent these
   were the same women being employed or whether individual women moved in
   and out of the labor force depending on family circumstances.)
   The younger sisters of this age cohort followed their elders’ example
   and added momentum to the trend. In 1965, 38.5% of women aged 25-34
   were in the paid labor force. By 1986 this same group – then aged 45-55
   – had a 66.3% rate. These women were obviously more dedicated to paid
   employment than is commonly believed, but society still maintained the
   fiction that women were caretakers and men were breadwinners.
   What’s interesting – but not often perceived or discussed – is that as
   women’s employment has increased, men’s employment has decreased.
   During the last 25 years women’s employment has increased by 30% or
   more in every age category up to age 55 while men’s employment has
   declined in every age group over age 25. This trend represents a
   profound shift in lifestyles and contradicts long-held cultural
   assumptions.
FORCES BEHIND THE CHANGE
   There are strong economic forces at work behind this shift. For a great
   majority of younger families, it is no longer practical to think in
   terms of a "family wage" – enough income from one wage earner to
   support a family, the children’s education and the couple’s retirement.
   Virtually every younger family (and many older ones) now assumes that
   the wife and mother can – and must – be an economic contributor to the
   family.
   Family income has dropped over the last decade and a half, unless there
   is a second earner. In February, 1988, the Congressional Budget Office
   released a report: "Trends in Family Income: 1970-1986." Staff of the
   U.S. House of Representatives’ Select Committee on Children, Youth and
   Families analyzed these findings and concluded that although "family
   income for the typical family rose during this period … income gains
   were not evenly distributed. Low income families with children, young
   families at all income levels and poor single mother families in 1986
   were much worse off than their counterparts in 1970." The main reason
   family incomes rose was "the increased number of workers per family,
   not increased earnings by the typical worker. Many families with
   children have needed to have both parents work to avoid losing ground."
   By contrast, among "elderly unrelated individuals and elderly families
   without children, median family income rose 50%." Noting that "earnings
   failed to keep pace with inflation for many workers, especially those
   in the younger age groups," the analysts found that "adding a second
   earner to the workforce or increasing the second earner’s work hours
   was often necessary to keep family income from falling…. These altered
   work arrangements have resulted in parents (especially mothers) having
   less time with children, less leisure time, and possibly, fewer
   children." (italics added).
   Even if the family wage concept were an actuality, the incidence of
   divorce (and the record of support and maintenance awards and payments
   after divorce) indicate to women of all ages that there are no public
   or private guarantees of economic support in exchange for carrying out
   the caretaker role. Paid employment outside the home is now the
   accepted form of self-insurance for women as well as men. Fringe
   benefits such as health insurance and social security are an almost
   mandatory element of self-sufficiency when increasing life spans are
   taken into account.
   Yet while women have moved into the paid workforce in such numbers that
   employment is no longer gender-based, the care and maintenance of
   household and children generally has remained the province of women.
   The physical and emotional work of maintaining families, especially
   those with young children (who require years of almost constant
   supervision and nurture), is very demanding, but it is only just
   beginning to be appreciated by policy makers and society at large.
   The changing relationship to work is also changing the pattern of
   rights and expectations within marriage. Despite strong cultural
   traditions and the need of most humans for intimate relationships, it
   is increasingly clear that individuals who are required to be
   economically self-sufficient have less tolerance for unequal familial
   relationships than those who are economically dependent. As women’s
   attachment to the paid labor force grows stronger, they are asserting
   their rights to power and control in family decision-making more
   vigorously. When those rights are not respected, many women either do
   not enter into, or depart from, what they consider intolerable family
   relationships. Men do the same.
   The questions raised by these shifts are profound and disturbing. Can
   we still rely on families, as we have in the past, to produce healthy
   and effective workers and citizens when it often takes two earners to
   support a young family? Where will the time and effort for family life
   come from? Even more so for the 27% of U.S. families with children and
   only one adult, most often a mother: where does the time, energy and
   money come from to raise those children? According to 1987 Census
   reports, 20% of U.S. children lived in poverty in 1986 (up from 1978),
   with children under age six most at risk. A majority – 51.4% – of
   families below the poverty line were female-headed, illustrating the
   difficulties posed when women alone try to maintain families, assuming
   both the caretaking and breadwinning roles.
   In response to these shifts, will increasing numbers of young women
   reject marriage or motherhood, the creation of new families, because of
   their desire and ability to gain better security and status through
   paid employment? Will those who have little hope or expectation of paid
   employment be the major procreators? Or will standards and norms about
   work and family change? Will men share the caretaking and household
   maintenance functions as women share the breadwinning function? Will
   women give up control inside the household? Who will care for and
   nurture the young as both men and women work for pay? Will society, to
   preserve and regenerate itself, devise ways to help care for the
   vulnerable young as they have for the vulnerable old?
THE CHALLENGE AHEAD
   As the 21st century approaches, the time and energy required for child
   bearing and rearing, the importance of intimate relationships, and the
   need for family policies that take into account the diversity and
   changing nature of American families will need to be increasingly
   understood and appreciated if our society is to survive. Caretaking for
   the next generation can no longer be assumed to be a "free good" with
   the costs borne almost solely by individual parents or families.
   Child bearing is now an option. That option must be made more
   attractive and less expensive to the individual and to families, or
   additional numbers of women and families will limit their child
   bearing. We must also face the reality that human young are vulnerable
   for years, and that effective child rearing is mandatory for a humane
   society. Lip service does not buy groceries or assure a child’s
   development into a competent and satisfied adult. A new social compact
   between men and women, between rich and poor, between generations, and
   between society and the family will need to be devised. The elements of
   that compact are still unclear; what is clear is that women are in the
   paid labor force to stay, at least for a major portion of their adult
   lives.
   Some steps have already been taken or are being discussed; for example,
   maternity and paternity leave, child care subsidies or tax credits,
   extra tax deductions for families with children, and the quality of
   education have been put on the public agenda. There are signs of a new
   generation of "working fathers" – men deeply involved with their
   children, caring for them as mothers have always done – and even
   "househusbands." Such men are still rare enough, however, to be
   remarkable; and unfortunately they are often ostracized.
   What is also remarkable is the resistance among many women to giving up
   control of the caretaking role in families. Even though women’s work in
   the home has been demeaned, the home was still the "province of women"
   where they had a measure of power, some social value, and often a sense
   of satisfaction. An important question for the future is whether women
   will be willing to give up control in the home in order to gain greater
   power in the workplace and the public arena.
   In the next century the child-bearing and child-rearing years may well
   be considered as valued a time of life as the retirement years. It is
   possible that workers who are the parents of young children may be
   encouraged to take a kind of sabbatical, dividing their time between
   family care, part-time employment, and further education or training.
   Parents of young children may be allowed and encouraged to collect some
   of their social security during the regenerative years.
   The work week may be shortened and employment patterns over a lifetime
   may continue to change for both males and females to accommodate
   changes in family circumstances. Health care support for the young and
   their parents may become as accepted as Medicare and public education.
   As people live longer, patterns of living, working, and thinking about
   one’s lifetime will continue to change. More men may find diversity in
   work and family life as satisfying and challenging as have some of the
   current generation of mothers and grandmothers. Equality between men
   and women, once tasted and experimented with, may be appreciated and
   even savored.
   We may understand and acknowledge the fact that raising a child and
   participating in family life breeds wisdom and satisfaction. Caretaking
   also teaches skills like management, prioritizing, and negotiation that
   are transferable and might be rewarded in the future, or at least
   valued. As family life and children – the future incarnate – become
   more fully appreciated, new concepts of success may emerge that equate
   the successful raising of children with career achievement.
   People of all shades of the political and racial spectrum live in
   families. Let us hope that we can use this common ground on behalf of
   families and children as a basis for new social innovations in the 21st
   century comparable to the technological advances of the 20th century.
<T=1-2.txt>
Family structure in the United States
   An American family composed of the mother, father, children, and
   extended family.
   The traditional family structure in the United States is considered a
   family support system involving two married individuals providing care
   and stability for their biological offspring. However, this two-parent,
   nuclear family has become less prevalent, and alternative family forms
   have become more common. The family is created at birth and
   establishes ties across generations. Those generations, the
   extended family of aunts, uncles, grandparents, and cousins, can hold
   significant emotional and economic roles for the nuclear family.
   Over time, the traditional structure has had to adapt to very
   influential changes, including divorce and the introduction of
   single-parent families, teenage pregnancy and unwed mothers, and
   same-sex marriage, and increased interest in adoption. Social movements
   such as the feminist movement and the stay-at-home dad have contributed
   to the creation of alternative family forms, generating new versions of
   the American family.
Contents
      At a glance
           Nuclear family
           Single parent
           Stepfamilies
           Extended family
      Roles and relationships
           Married partners
           Unwed partners
           Parents
           Housewives
           "Breadwinners"
           Stay-at-home dads
      Children
           Only child families
           Childfree and childlessness
           Adopted children
      Modern family models
           Same-sex marriage, adoption, and child rearing
           Single-parent households
           Adoption requirements
           Male/female role pressures
      African-American family structure
      Television portrayals
      See also
      Further reading
      References
      External links
At a glance
   This figure illustrates the changing structure of families in the U.S.
   Only 7% of families in the U.S. in 2002 were "traditional" families in
   the sense that the husband worked and earned a sufficient income for
   the wife and kids to stay home. Many families are now dual-earner
   families. The "other" group includes the many households that are
   headed by a single parent.
Nuclear family
   Further information: Nuclear family
   The nuclear family has been considered the "traditional" family since
   the communist scare in the cold war of the 1950s. The nuclear family
   consists of a mother, father, and the children. The two-parent nuclear
   family has become less prevalent, and pre-American and European family
   forms have become more common.
   These include same-sex relationships, single-parent households,
   adopting individuals, and extended family systems living together. The
   nuclear family is also choosing to have fewer children than in the
   past. The percentage of married-couple households with children
   under 18 has declined to 23.5% of all households in 2000 from 25.6% in
   1990, and from 45% in 1960.
Single parent
   Further information: Single parent
   See also: Teenage pregnancy
   A single parent (also termed lone parent or sole parent) is a parent
   who cares for one or more children without the assistance of the other
   biological parent. Historically, single-parent families often resulted
   from death of a spouse, for instance in childbirth. Single-parent homes
   are increasing as married couples divorce, or as unmarried couples have
   children. Although widely believed to be detrimental to the mental and
   physical well being of a child, this type of household is
   tolerated.
   The percentage of single-parent households has doubled in the last
   three decades, but that percentage tripled between 1900 and 1950.
   The sense of marriage as a "permanent" institution has been weakened,
   allowing individuals to consider leaving marriages more readily than
   they may have in the past. Increasingly, single parent families are
   due to out of wedlock births, especially those due to unintended
   pregnancy.
Stepfamilies
   Stepfamilies are becoming more familiar in America. Divorce rates are
   rising and the remarriage rate is rising as well, therefore, bringing
   two families together making step families. Statistics show that there
   are 1,300 new stepfamilies forming every day. Over half of American
   families are remarried, that is 75% of marriages ending in divorce,
   remarry.
Extended family
   Further information: Extended family
   The extended family consists of grandparents, aunts, uncles, and
   cousins. In some circumstances, the extended family comes to live
   either with or in place of a member of the nuclear family. An example
   includes elderly parents who move in with their children due to old
   age. This places large demands on the caregivers, particularly the
   female relatives who choose to perform these duties for their extended
   family.
   Historically, among certain Asian and Native American cultures the
   family structure consisted of a grandmother and her children,
   especially daughters, who raised their own children together and shared
   child care responsibilities. Uncles, brothers, and other male relatives
   sometimes helped out. Romantic relationships between men and women were
   formed and dissolved with little impact on the children who remained in
   the mother's extended family.
Roles and relationships
Married partners
   Further information: Marriage in the United States
   A married couple was defined as a "husband and wife enumerated as
   members of the same household" by the U.S. Census Bureau, but they
   will be categorizing same-sex couples as married couples if they are
   married. Same-sex couples who were married were previously recognized
   by the Census Bureau as unmarried partners. Same-sex marriage is
   legally permitted across the country since June 26, 2015, when the
   Supreme Court issued its decision in Obergefell v. Hodges. Polygamy is
   illegal throughout the U.S.
   Although Cousin marriages are illegal in most states, they are legal in
   many states, the District of Columbia and some territories. Some states
   have some restrictions or exceptions for cousin marriages and/or
   recognize such marriages performed out-of-state. Since the 1940s, the
   United States marriage rate has decreased, whereas rates of divorce
   have increased.
Unwed partners
   See also: Cohabitation in the United States
   Living as unwed partners is also known as cohabitation. The number of
   heterosexual unmarried couples in the United States has increased
   tenfold, from about 400,000 in 1960 to more than five million in
   2005. This number would increase by at least another 594,000 if
   same-sex partners were included. Of all unmarried couples, about 1
   in 9 (11.1% of all unmarried-partner households) are homosexual.
   The cohabitation lifestyle is becoming more popular in today's
   generation. It is more convenient for couples not to get married
   because it can be cheaper and simpler. As divorce rates rise in
   society, the desire to get married is less attractive for couples
   uncertain of their long-term plans.
Parents
   Parents can be either the biological mother or biological father, or
   the legal guardian for adopted children. Traditionally, mothers were
   responsible for raising the kids while the father was out providing
   financially for the family. The age group for parents ranges from
   teenage parents to grandparents who have decided to raise their
   grandchildren, with teenage pregnancies fluctuating based on race and
   culture. Older parents are financially established and generally
   have fewer problems raising children compared to their teenage
   counterparts.
Housewives
   Further information: Housewife
   A housewife is a married woman who does not work outside of the home
   for income but stays and takes care of the home and children. This
   includes doing the cooking, washing, cleaning, etc. The roles of women
   working within the house has changed drastically as more women start to
   pursue careers. The amount of time women spend doing housework declined
   from 27 hours per week in 1965 to less than 16 hours in 1995, but it is
   still substantially more housework than their male partners.
"Breadwinners"
   Further information: Breadwinner model
   A breadwinner is the main financial provider in the family.
   Historically the husband has been the breadwinner; that trend is
   changing as wives start to take advantage of the women's movement to
   gain financial independence for themselves. According to the New York
   Times, "In 2001, wives earned more than their spouses in almost a third
   of married households where the wife worked." Yet, even within
   nuclear families in which both spouses are employed outside of the
   home, many men are still responsible for a substantially smaller share
   of household duties.
Stay-at-home dads
   Further information: Stay-at-home dad
   Stay-at-home dads are fathers that do not participate in the labor
   market and raise their children—the male equivalent to housewives.
   Stay-at-home dads are not as popular in American society.^[20]
   According to the U.S. Census Bureau, "There are an estimated 105,000
   'stay-at-home' dads. These are married fathers with children under 15
   who are not in the labor force primarily so they can care for family
   members while their wives work outside the home. Stay-at-home dads care
   for 189,000 children."
Children
   See also: family planning
Only child families
   An only child (single child) is one without any biological or adopted
   brothers or sisters. Single children are stereotypically portrayed as
   spoiled, self-centered, and selfish. Single children often excel more
   in school and in their careers than children with siblings.
Childfree and childlessness
   Childfree couples chose to not have children. These include young
   couples, who intend to have children later, as well as those who do not
   plan to have any children.
   Involuntary childlessness may be caused by infertility, medical
   problems, death of a child, or other factors.
Adopted children
   Adopted children are children that were given up at birth, abandoned or
   were unable to be cared for by their biological parents. They may have
   been put into foster care before finding their permanent residence. It
   is particularly hard for adopted children to get adopted from foster
   care: only 50,000 children were adopted in 2001. The average age
   of these children was 7 years old, which shows that fewer older
   children were adopted.
Modern family models
Same-sex marriage, adoption, and child rearing
   Further information: Same-sex marriage in the United States and
   Same-sex adoption
   Same-sex parents are gay or lesbian couples that choose to raise
   children. Nationally, 66% of female same-sex couples and 44% of male
   same-sex couples live with children under 18 years old. In the
   2000 census, there were 594,000 households that claimed to be headed by
   same-sex couples, with 72% of those having children. In July 2004,
   the American Psychological Association concluded that "Overall results
   of research suggests that the development, adjustment, and well-being
   of children with lesbian and gay parents do not differ markedly from
   that of children with heterosexual parents."
Single-parent households
   Single-parent homes in America are starting to become more common in
   today's society. With more children being born to unmarried couples and
   to couples whose marriages subsequently dissolve, children increasingly
   live with only one parent. The proportion of children living with a
   never-married parent has also grown, from 4% in 1960 to 42% in
   2001. Of all one parent families, 83% are mother–child
   families.
Adoption requirements
   Further information: Adoption in the United States
   The adoption requirements and policies for adopting children have made
   it harder for foster families and potential adoptive families to adopt
   kids. Before a family can adopt they must go through state, county, and
   agency criteria. Adoption agencies' criteria express the importance of
   age of the adoptive parents, as well as the agency's desire for married
   couples over single adopters. Adoptive parents also have to deal
   with criteria that are given by the birth parents of the adoptive
   child. The different criteria for adopting children makes it harder for
   couples to adopt children in need, but the strict requirements can
   help protect the foster children from unqualified couples.
   Currently 1.5 million (2%) of all U.S children are adopted. There are
   different types of adoption; embryo adoption when a couple is having
   trouble conceiving a child and instead choose to have their sperm and
   egg conjoined outside the womb, international adoption where couples
   adopt children that come from foreign countries, and private adoption
   which is the most common form of adoption. In private adoption,
   families can adopt children via licensed agencies or with by directly
   contacting the child's biological parents.
Male/female role pressures
   Further information: Gender role
   The traditional "father" and "mother" roles of the nuclear family have
   become blurred over time. Because of the women's movement's push for
   women to engage in traditionally masculine pursuits in society, as
   women choose to sacrifice their child-bearing years to establish their
   careers, and as fathers feel increasing pressure to be involved with
   tending to children, the traditional roles of fathers as the
   "breadwinners" and mothers as the "caretakers" have come into
   question.
African-American family structure
   Further information: African-American family structure
   The family structure of African-Americans has long been a matter of
   national public policy interest. The 1965 report by Daniel Patrick
   Moynihan, known as The Moynihan Report, examined the link between black
   poverty and family structure. It hypothesized that the destruction
   of the black nuclear family structure would hinder further progress
   toward economic and political equality.
   When Moynihan wrote in 1965 on the coming destruction of the black
   family, the out-of-wedlock birthrate was 25 percent among blacks.
   In 1991, 68 percent of black children were born outside of
   marriage. In 2011, 72% of black babies were born to unwed
   mothers.
Television portrayals
   The television industry initially helped create a stereotype of the
   American nuclear family. During the era of the baby boomers, families
   became a popular social topic, especially on television. Family
   shows such as Roseanne, All in the Family, Leave It to Beaver, The
   Cosby Show, Married... with Children, The Jeffersons, and Good Times,
   Everybody Loves Raymond have portrayed different social classes of
   families growing up in America. Those "perfect" nuclear families have
   changed as the years passed and have become more inclusive, showing
   single-parent and divorced families, as well as older singles.
   Television shows that show single-parent families include Half & Half,
   One on One, Murphy Brown, and Gilmore Girls.
   While it did not become a common occurrence the iconic image of the
   American family was started in the early 1930s. It was not until WWII
   that families generally had the economical income in which to
   successfully propagate this lifestyle.
<T=1-21.txt>
How Family Structure has Changed
   Your feedback and suggestions will help us improve this site: Take
   our online user survey
   Data about family structure illustrate how individuals in an area are
   organized into different family arrangements.
What is a Family?
   According to the U.S. Census Bureau, a family is "a group of two or
   more people who reside together and who are related by birth, marriage,
   or adoption" (U.S. Census Bureau). Though this definition seems
   straightforward, where do married couples or parents and children who
   live in different places fit in this definition of family? What about
   aunts and uncles who regularly care for their nieces or nephews while
   the parents work? According to the Census Bureau's definition, these
   relatively common family arrangements are not officially recognized as
   families. While the Bureau's definition of families is clear and is
   easily tracked over time, it is important to recognize that not all of
   our families fit this definition.
   In fact, across time and cultures, using the Census Bureau definition
   of family is an inappropriate way to measure and examine families. In
   ancient Greece and in feudal Europe, a family was all of the people who
   contributed to the household financial system, including servants
   (Coltrane and Collins, 2001). In many cultures today, non-parental
   adults are also considered part of the family if they play a large role
   in raising or looking after the children of others. These examples
   highlight the fact that, though the Census definition is clear and
   helpful, there is no single understanding of what a family is; its
   definition varies across many groups of people.
How Have Families Changed over Time, and Why?
   The structures, or forms, of the family vary as much as the definition
   itself. There is no single "true" family form. In Western Europe the
   nuclear family (a single set of biological parents residing together
   with their children) was prevalent in the Middle Ages, but at that same
   time in Eastern Europe multiple generations of the same family lived
   together in the same household (Coltrane and Collins, 2001). Indeed,
   the United States has also seen many types of family forms throughout
   its short history. Stephanie Coontz's (2005) research on the history of
   marriage reveals that the family forms we see today in the U.S. are
   actually the result of an evolution of the family that began with an
   important shift in the culture of marriage in the mid-18^th Century.
   A Family at the Beach
   Coontz (2005) found that only in the mid- to late-18th Century in
   Western Europe and North America "did the notion of free choice and
   marriage for love triumph as a cultural ideal...[opening] the way for
   it to become an optional and fragile [institution]" thus influencing
   the structure of the family at that time and into the future (p. 7).
   Earlier in history, during the Stone and Middle Ages, marriage was not
   based on love and men and women had very little choice about whom they
   married. In the Stone Age men and women married in order to improve the
   economic situation of their respective clans, then in the Middle Ages
   and into the 18th Century marriage served the economic and political
   needs of a particular extended family group (Coontz, 2005).
   As marriage evolved in the mid- to late-18th Century into a union
   based on love, other economic, cultural, and political shifts in the
   U.S. and in other nations were happening that would further influence
   the structure of the family. In the 19th Century an ideal of the
   husband as breadwinner and the wife as homemaker became popular, but
   the majority of families could not achieve this ideal, as few jobs paid
   wages high enough to support a single-earner family. This changed as
   World War II ended and the U.S. experienced a time of dramatic economic
   growth. The economic prosperity of the time combined with the popular
   cultural ideal gave rise to family trends in the 1950s and early 1960s
   that had never been seen before. "Ozzie and Harriet" families that
   married young, remained married, and had many children were the major
   family form at this time (McLanahan and Casper, 2001). The realization
   of the Ozzie and Harriet ideal did not last long, however. In the late
   1960s and 1970s divorce rates rose, births to unmarried women
   increased, and the average age of first marriage also rose. The reasons
   for these changes in the '60s and '70s were many: real wages for women
   rose while those for men fell, the economy weakened, wives joined the
   workforce due to the downturn in the economy, and women gained access
   to legal rights, education, birth control, and paid work (McLanahan and
   Casper, 2001; Coltrane and Collins, 2001). This historical examination
   of the evolution of the family and marriage shows that the family has
   constantly been under pressure to evolve and shift with changes in the
   economy, our values, and even politics. The evolution of marriage into
   an institution of love along with changes in the economy, our culture,
   and the political scene since the 1950s has meant that American men and
   women have been able to realize their ideals of the male breadwinner
   and marriage for the sake of love and personal freedom as time changes.
   These influences and trends in marriage, divorce, and non-marital
   fertility did not escape rural America. Comparing urban and rural parts
   of the country between 1950 and 1970 reveals, however, that rural
   divorce rates were lower, fewer women age 20-24 were unmarried, and the
   number of children per 1,000 ever married women age 35-44 was slightly
   higher in rural America (Brown, 1981). The changes in marriage,
   divorce, and fertility we observe during the 20^th Century in all parts
   of the U.S. demonstrate that the structure of families are changing and
   becoming more diverse. While there are now many forms available to
   people, the family itself is not disappearing.
Why Do Families Matter?
   The increasing diversity of the family in the U.S. has led scholars to
   examine if and how different family forms are associated with different
   groups of people who then may experience different outcomes. Research
   has found that not all racial groups participate in each family type
   equally, thus not all family forms are equally available to all people
   (McLanahan and Casper, 2001). Scholars have also found that each type
   of family (e.g., married with kids, married with no kids, single-parent
   with young children, etc.) is associated with different economic,
   child, and health outcomes. Demographers Sara McLanahan and Lynne
   Casper (2001) explain that past research has found that:
   Children who grow up with only one of their parents"¦are more likely to
   drop out of high school, to become teenage and single mothers, and to
   have trouble finding and keeping a steady job in young adulthood, even
   after adjusting for differences in parents' socioeconomic background
   (McLanahan & Sandefur, 1994). (p. 6)
   They clarify, however, that "about half of the disadvantages associated
   with single parenthood are due to lower incomes [of single parents].
   Most of the rest are due to too little parental involvement and
   supervision and too much residential mobility" (p. 6). Stephanie Coontz
   (2005) also clarifies that the psychological, health, and economic
   benefits of marriage for families are due to a number of factors like:
   the effect of selection (people who are already healthier, more
   psychologically stable, and better able to manage finances tend to
   marry more than those who are not), the "expectations about
   responsibility, fidelity, and intimacy" in marriage, and the freedom to
   exit psychologically, physically, and economically stressful unhappy
   marriages (p. 309-310). While we see increasing diversity in family
   types in the U.S. across time it is clear that not all types lead to
   equal outcomes or are equally available to all.
Explore on Your Own!
   Are there differences in family structures between urban and rural
   Oregon communities in 1990 and 2000? Did the prevalence of some family
   forms change in some places between 1990 and 2000? Are there
   communities with high rates of single parenthood? Why do you think they
   are high?
Family Structure-Related Terms
   Using the tools of the Oregon Communities Explorer you can examine
   family trends across the state among the following variables:
      Average Family Size: The number of members of families divided by
       the total number of families, where a family is a group of two or
       more people who reside together and who are related by birth,
       marriage, or adoption.
       Formula: [of all people in families]/[of families]
       Source: US Census Bureau
      Average Household Size: The number of people who share a housing
       unit as their usual place of residence divided by the total number
       of households.
       Formula: [of all people in households]/[of households]
       Source: US Census Bureau
      Marital Status by Gender: The percentage of men and women over age
       15 who either have never married, are currently married, are
       widowed, or are divorced.
       Formula example: ([unmarried men]/[population of men age
       15+])*100
       Source: US Census Bureau
      Families with Children: The percentage of families that have
       children under 18 years old.
       Formula: (([married-couples with children under 18]+[single men
       with own children under 18]+[single women with own children under
       18])/[total of families])*100
       Source: US Census Bureau
      Single-parent Families: Of families with children, the percentage
       headed by a single parent, either male or female.
       Formula: (([single men with own children under 18]+[single
       women with own children under 18])/[total number of families with
       children under 18])*100
       Source: US Census Bureau
      Teen Pregnancy Rate: Number of pregnancies per thousand teen
       females.
       Formula: ([number of pregnancies to females age 15-17]/[number of
       females age 15-17])*1000
       Source: Oregon Department of Human Services, Center for Health
       Statistics
      Births to Unwed Mothers: The percent of live births that are to
       unmarried women.
       Formula: ([number of births to unwed women]/([number of births to
       unwed women]+[number of births to wed women]))*100
       Source: Oregon Department of Human Services, Center for Health
       Statistics
<T=1-22.txt>
What is the “Traditional American Family?”
   Posted By: Laurel Moglen
   An interview with Stephanie Coontz
   What is the “traditional family?”  Working father, stay-at-home mom,
   and two kids? In this day and age, so few families fit that
   description, it’s basically a ridiculous notion. As the Holidays
   approach, we’re very interested in learning more about what today’s
   families really look like, and how it’s affecting our kids.  At what
   point will the vision of what makes the “Traditional American Family”
   be altered to reflect our new realities?  We got a welcomed reality
   check from Stephanie Coontz, esteemed author and Director of Research
   and Public Education for the Council on Contemporary Families. We want
   to know:  who sits at your holiday table?  And more importantly, who’s
   making dinner?  — Sam Kurtzman-Counter, President, TMC
   What is the most current percentage of American families that fit into
   the “traditional” category – that is working dad, stay-at-home mom, and
   kid/s?
   New census figures show that as of 2011, only 23% of married couple
   families with children younger than age 15 have a stay-at-home mother
   (SAHM).  These days, there are more kids being raised by single moms
   than by married couples where the man earns all the income and the wife
   stays home.
   What are the stats of gay, lesbian, stay-at-home-dads, and other
   “non-traditional” families?
   Married couples with children account for less than a quarter of all
   households. More than 30 percent of households are single person
   households. 23 percent of children live with a single mother, 5 percent
   with a single father. More than 70 percent of all children live in
   families where every adult in the household is employed.
   Stay-at-home-dads are still a small minority — less than a million in
   the country –but dads do the primary child care for more than a quarter
   of the children whose mother works outside the home.
   According to revised estimates from the 2010 census, there are 131,729
   same-sex married couple households and 514,735 same-sex unmarried
   partner households in the united states, but this relies on
   self-reports, so is biased toward the low side. About 20 percent of
   same sex couples are raising kids.
   What are the myths about the “Traditional American Family’?
   One myth is that male breadwinner families were “the” traditional
   family. Much more traditional has been the custom of having a family
   labor force — either with the wife as co-provider or the children, and
   often both. It was not until the 1920s that a bare majority of kids
   grew up in a family where the mother was not working on the farm or in
   a small business, and where the children were in school instead of in
   the workforce. That family form receded in the Depression and World War
   II and came roaring back in the 1950s, largely due to a combination of
   discrimination against female workers and unprecedented rises in real
   wages for young men, as home prices fell in the postwar boom, wages
   rose, and government invested in new jobs, job training, and
   educational opportunities. Most researchers agree that it will never
   come back as the majority family form.
   Another myth is that parents used to spend more time with their
   children in the 1950s and 1960s. While the hours moms spent looking
   after their children did initially fall as women entered the workforce,
   they started to rise again after 1980, so that today, parents spend
   more time with their kids than in 1965. (In 1965, kids spent more time
   with siblings and friends or just playing, watching tv in their rooms,
   and less in direct contact with mom than today, even though moms were
   often around more.) Working moms today spend somewhat less time
   interacting with their kids than SAHMs, but they spend more time with
   their kids than SAHMs did in 1965, the high point of male breadwinner
   families.
   Meanwhile, dads’ time with kids has quadrupled, and husbands of working
   moms spend more time with their children than husbands of SAHMs.
   Yet another myth is that there is this deep divide between what SAHMs
   and employed moms want. While a majority of employed moms would like to
   cut back their work hours, 40 percent of SAHMs wish they had a job. And
   when moms “opt out,” this is very often not their first choice, but
   their fallback when their employers won’t adjust hours or policies or
   their husband won’t or can’t lessen his hours enough to pitch in at
   home. Most women would like more balance in their work and family
   options, and so would most dads. In fact, unlike 35 years ago, men now
   report higher levels of work-family conflict than do women.
   How are young children (ages 3-6) affected by their non-traditional
   families?
   How a family functions is more important than how it looks from the
   outside. For example, statistics say that the best predictor of a
   child’s academic success is the mother’s education and aspirations for
   her child, not her marital state. A new study finds that on average,
   kids who have SAHMs during the first year of life have some small
   advantages over those who have working moms, but the reverse is true
   for those whose moms work during years 2 and 3 — and ultimately, most
   of the differences average out over the next 5 or 6 years. The big risk
   to kids is moms’ depression, and a study shows  — this is a win-win
   situation, somewhat like the fact that the more you nurse, the more
   your breast milk comes on — that moms are least depressed when they are
   doing what they want.
   For example, another recent study shows that the highest rates of
   depression are found in SAHMs who wish they had a job and in employed
   moms who want to stay home but have to work, and have only been able to
   find work in a low quality job. Interestingly, moms who want to stay
   home but have a high quality job have just about as low rates of
   depression as moms who are getting their first choice. Which suggests
   that SAHMs should be sure to keep their social networks and skills up
   so if they do want or need to go to work, they can get a job that gives
   them more control over their work and more flexibility.
   It’s very important for parents not to let themselves be tyrannized by
   averages. There is tremendous variability in outcomes, and parents have
   to find what arrangements suit both their individual needs and the
   dynamics of their family life. That said, children do better, whatever
   their parents’ working arrangements, when parents have access to
   parental leaves, well-funded and carefully regulated child care, and
   work-family benefits. And the U.S. lags behind every other rich country
   in the world in these matters.
   Is there any indication that the “traditional family” form is more or
   less stable than the “non-traditional” family?
   Again, variations in functioning and background count for more than the
   specific form. The most stable families are those with college-educated
   parents, whoever works. But women with higher education are LESS
   likely, not more likely, to opt out of the labor force. In heterosexual
   couples, the important predictor of marital stability is how fair the
   woman perceives the division of housework and childcare to be. (And a
   word to the wise for men: Women feel more intimate and more sexually
   attracted to their husbands when their husbands do housework and child
   care — there’s another win-win proposition.) Another factor is the age
   at first marriage. For every year a woman postpones marriage, right up
   to her early 30s, her chance of divorce goes down.
   Why is the image of the traditional family (working dad, SAHM, and kids
   under 18) so entrenched in the American consciousness?
   The breadwinner family of the 1950s was in fact a very new — and
   short-lived — invention. But it coincided with the development of
   television, and those images were burned into our consciousness. Also,
   most of the political and economic leaders in America, until recently,
   were products of that generation. They assumed that was the norm and
   that’s what they taught their own children. They designed their work
   and social policies around that assumption, and idealized that family
   form in the mass culture.
   How long will it last? I do think people are much more accepting of
   diversity than even 20 years ago, but our work policies, social
   programs, and even school schedules have been designed in ways that
   assume every working American has someone at home to take care of the
   rest of life, so a lot of economic and political leaders are in denial.
   Fearing it would be expensive and troublesome to adjust to the complex
   realities of family life today, they ask the rest of us to adjust to
   their simplistic fantasies about family life.
   Stephanie Coontz teaches history and family studies at The Evergreen
   State College in Olympia, Washington, and is Director of Research and
   Public Education for the Council on Contemporary Families, which she
   chaired from 2001-04.  She has authored many books including, The Way
   We Never Were: American Families and the Nostalgia Trap (1992 and 2000,
   Basic Books) and A Strange Stirring: The Feminine Mystique and American
   Women at the Dawn of the 1960s (Basic Books, 2011).
   The Mother Company aims to support parents and their children,
   providing thought-provoking web content and products based in social
   and emotional learning for young kids. Check out episodes of our
   “Ruby’s Studio” children’s video series, along with our beautiful
   children’s books, apps, music and more.
   Posted in: Expert Advice, Family, Gay Parenting, Learn
Related Posts
LGBT Family Resources, from “Lesbian Dad”
Audio: Stay-at-Home-Dads Rap about their Family Role
A Lesbian Mom Speaks Up
Mondays with the Mamas: LGBT Parenting
   Leave a Comment
Comments 
     Stevie Quilliams2 months ago
       Hello, what an informative and comprehensive article. Helped me a
       lot with my problem. Like the facts you have mentioned. Absolutely
       true!
     Kelley Agoff3 months ago
       Great, just ended skimming this article. Very great articles you
       got there. Definitely following your website! Thank you for
       everything.
<T=1-23.txt>
The end of the ‘typical’ American family
   4 September 2014, 3:20 pm EDT By Jim Algar Tech Times
   The "typical" American family of the 1950s is gone, replaced by a
   diversity of new arrangements. "Different is the new normal," a
   sociologist says.  ( Philip Cohen )
   The "typical" America family of the 1950s -- a working Dad, a
   homemaking Mom bringing up the kids -- is no more, replaced by a new
   model that has as its central identifier a diversity of roles.
   There is no one kind of typical family anymore, sociologists are
   saying, and the breadwinner-homemaker model, common since the dawn of
   the Industrial Revolution, has been modified into a range of possible
   family forms.
   "There hasn't been the collapse of one dominant family structure and
   the rise of another," says University of Maryland sociologist Philip
   Cohen. "It's really a fanning out into all kinds of family structures."
   "Different is the new normal," he says.
   In a study prepared for the Council on Contemporary Families, Cohen
   highlights what he says are the three most significant changes in
   American family life during the past 50 years.
      A decline in marriage: household headed by married couples declined
       from 66 percent in 1960 to 45 percent by 2010.
      The increase in the numbers of women entering the paid workforce.
      The rising number of blended, remarried and co-habiting families.
   While in the 1950s 65 percent of all children under the age of 15 were
   growing up in traditional breadwinner-homemaker situations, today only
   22 percent of them are, Cohen points out.
   "In 1960 you would have had an 80 percent chance that two children,
   selected at random, would share the same situation. By 2012, that
   chance had fallen to just a little more than 50-50," he says. "It is
   really impossible to point to a 'typical' family."
   Instead, he says, many children are being raised by single mothers, by
   a parent cohabiting with an unmarried partner, by a single father or by
   grandparents.
   Today's children are much more likely to experience a change in their
   family arrangements at some point in their lives, Cohen says.
   Factors driving the changes in the structure of American families today
   include a changing economy, job opportunities, rising education and
   increasing independence of women, Cohen says.
   These changes have not been matched with changes to government laws and
   policies, such as taxes or regulations governing work hours, that
   affect how families work and live, he points out.
   "Different families have different child-rearing challenges and needs,
   which means we are no longer well-served by policies that assume most
   children will be raised by married-couple families, especially ones
   where the mother stays home throughout the children's early years," he
   says.
<T=1-24.txt>
   United Kingdom
   Hey everyone!!
   If you read this could you please give me your comments and criticisms
   on it? Thank you so much!!
   Defining Family
   When most people think of the word family mother, father, children, and
   relatives immediately come to mind. If you look up the word in the
   Merriam-Webster dictionary you would read:
     family  n. - a group of individuals living under
     one roof and usually under one head
   While all this can be true of a family, it is not the only way or the
   correct way that family can be defined. Family is more accurately
   described as a group of people who might not be related by blood or
   marriage but who sincerely care and love each other. Family is there
   for you every step of the way and provides support you could never get
   anywhere else.
   Families are the building blocks of any society and have been this way
   since the beginning. Almost every aspect of our lives involves the term
   family. In our religion we are part of a “family” of believers. At Penn
   State we are part of one big “family” of students and faculty. Our
   country looks up to one person and is united under this man as a
   “family”. While these examples might be accepted by society today, it
   only describes family in broad terms. Family is much deeper than all of
   that and is the love you share with your friends and relatives.
   One very common misconception about family is that its members have to
   be related by blood, marriage, or adoption. In truth, family is anyone
   you love and care about and who also feel the same way about you.
   Johann Schiller described family perfectly when he said; “It is not
   flesh and blood but the heart which makes us fathers and sons.” I
   believe that my family is not only my parents who raised me, my little
   brother and my other relatives, but also my best friends. My great-aunt
   is my blood relative but she knows as much about me as the next person.
   My friend Caitlin can tell you anything you would ever want to know
   regarding me and we can practically read each other’s mind. I am not
   saying that my great-aunt is nothing but Caitlin is just as much a part
   of my family as my aunt. Family goes hand-in-hand with friendship. In
   order to have a family you need friendship. My family and I do not get
   along just because we are forced to live together. My family is my best
   friends and we get along because we genuinely love each other and want
   to be with each other.
   In today’s society most people consider family to be just blood
   relations but in reality it is the bonds you share with those you care
   for the most. Family is a completely necessary part of anyone’s life.
   Your family helps you through the tough times and provides the needed
   support to get through life. Family cares about what happens to you,
   are always there for you, and above all, loves you.
   Sep 21 2005 20:47:48New Member03
   Reply
   julielai:
   Hi Ler5018,
   I like this piece. The only thing I see is that you haven't taken the
   time to explain why Merriam-Webster's definition is off. You basically
   dismiss that definition offhand and expect your readers to buy yours.
   Just my two cents though. Emotion: smile
   Defining Family
   When most people think of the word family[punctuation] mother, father,
   children, and relatives immediately come to mind. If you look up the
   word in the Merriam-Webster dictionary you would read:
     family  n. - a group of individuals living under
     one roof and usually under one head
   While all this can be true of a family, it is not the only way (do we
   need the word?) or the correct way that family can be defined. Family
   is more accurately described as a group of people who might not be
   related by blood or marriage but who sincerely care and love each
   other. Family is there for you every step of the way and provides
   support you could never get anywhere else.
   Families are the building blocks of any society and have been this way
   since the beginning. Almost every aspect of our lives involves the term
   "family". In our religion we are part of a “family” of believers. At
   Penn State we are part of one big “family” of students and faculty. Our
   country looks up to one person and is united under this man as a
   “family”. While these examples might be accepted by society today, it
   only describes family in broad terms. Family love is much deeper than
   all of that and is the love you share with your friends and relatives.
   (semantics)
   One very common misconception about family is that its members have to
   be related by blood, marriage, or adoption. In truth, family is anyone
   you love and care about and who also feel (agreement) the same way
   about you. Johann Schiller described family perfectly when he said; “It
   is not flesh and blood but the heart which makes us fathers and sons.”
   I believe that my family is not only my parents who raised me, my
   little brother and my other relatives, but also my best friends. My
   great-aunt is my blood relative but she knows as much about me as the
   next person. My friend Caitlin can tell you anything you would ever
   want to know regarding me (slightly awkward) and we can practically
   read each other’s mind. I am not saying that my great-aunt is nothing
   (your great-aunt isn't a thing) but Caitlin is just as much a part of
   my family as my aunt. Family goes hand-in-hand with friendship. In
   order to have a family you need friendship. My family and I do not get
   along just because we are forced to live together. My family is my best
   friends and we get along because we genuinely love each other and want
   to be with each other.
   In today’s society most people consider family to be just blood
   relations but in reality it is (family aren't bonds. They are made up
   of bonds) the bonds you share with those you care for the most. Family
   is a completely necessary part of anyone’s life. Your family helps you
   through the tough times and provides the needed support to get you
   through life. Family cares about what happens to you, are always there
   for you, and above all, loves you.
   Sep 22 2005 03:53:54Senior Member3,940
   Moderator: A super-user who takes care of the forums. You have the
   ability to message a moderator privately should you wish. These users
   have a range of elevated privileges including the deletion, editing and
   movement of posts when needed. Proficient Speaker: Users in this role
   are known to maintain an excellent grasp of the English language. You
   can only be promoted to this role by the Englishforums team.
   Reply
   Enrico Wiki C:
    Family is more accurately described as a group of people who might
   not be related by blood or marriage but who sincerely care and love
   each other.
   Well, if all families were like that, nobody would say "I hate my
   family"! $
   Sep 22 2005 14:49:40New Member07
   Reply
   Enrico Wiki C:
     JulielaiThe only thing I see is that you haven't taken the time to
     explain why Merriam-Webster's definition is off. You basically
     dismiss that definition offhand and expect your readers to buy
     yours.
   Besides, while Ler5018's point is that a family is not just made up of
   blood or marriage ties, Merriam-Webster's definition doesn't mention
   "blood" or "marriage" at all! 
   Sep 22 2005 15:05:10
   Reply
   Ler5018:
   Hey thanks for your opinions!! I edited my my essay a little. Let me
   know what you think!!!
   Defining Family
   When most people think of the word family, mother, father, children,
   and relatives immediately come to mind. If you look up the word in the
   Merriam-Webster dictionary you would read:
     family  n. - a group of individuals living under
     one roof and usually under one head
   While all this can be true of a family, it is not the only or the
   correct way that family can be defined. Family is more accurately
   described as a group of people who might not be related by blood or
   marriage but who sincerely care and love each other. Family is there
   for you every step of the way and provides support you could never get
   anywhere else.
   Families are the building blocks of any society and have been this way
   since the beginning. Almost every aspect of our lives involves the term
   family. In our religion we are part of a “family” of believers. At Penn
   State we are part of one big “family” of students and faculty. Our
   country looks up to one person and is united under this man as a
   “family”. While these examples might be accepted by society today, it
   only describes family in broad terms. Family love is much deeper than
   all of that and is the love you share with your friends and relatives.
   One very common misconception about family is that its members have to
   be related by blood, marriage, or adoption. In truth, family is anyone
   you love and care about and who also feel the same way about you.
   Johann Schiller described family perfectly when he said; “It is not
   flesh and blood but the heart which makes us fathers and sons.” I
   believe that my family is not only my parents who raised me, my little
   brother and my other relatives, but also my best friends. My great-aunt
   is my blood relative but she knows as much about me as the next person.
   My friend Caitlin can tell you anything you would ever want to know
   concerning me and we can practically read each other’s mind. I am not
   saying that my great-aunt is not considered part of my family but
   Caitlin is just as much a part as my aunt. Family goes hand-in-hand
   with friendship. In order to have a family you need friendship. My
   family and I do not get along just because we are forced to live
   together. My family are my best friends and we get along because we
   genuinely love each other and want to be with each other.
   Family does not have to live under one roof or under one head as
   suggested by the Merriam-Webster dictionary. By saying that everyone
   has to live under one roof you immediately dismiss all friends, aunts,
   uncles, cousins, and grandparents that do not live with you. Each
   individual house is going to have a person in charge, but that is just
   for the individual house. That person in charge is not the head of the
   entire family. My father does not control my cousins and my uncle does
   not control my brother and I. If you truly love and care for all your
   relatives and friends, then living in different houses under different
   heads will not change whether or not you are all family.
   In today’s society most people consider family to be just blood
   relations but in reality family is made of the bonds you share with
   those you care for the most. Family is a completely necessary part of
   anyone’s life. Your family helps you through the tough times and
   provides the needed support to get you through life. Family cares about
   what happens to you, are always there for you, and above all, loves
   you.
   Sep 22 2005 16:09:20
   Reply
   julielai:
   Hi Ler,
   Just a couple of things:
    You need to have a definition that includes the common notion about
   blood ties before you attack it.
    Introduce your own definition after you have demolished the
   original.
   Just my two cents, again. Emotion: big smile
   Defining Family
   When most people think of the word family, mother, father, children,
   and relatives immediately come to mind. If you look up the word in the
   Merriam-Webster dictionary you would read:
     family  n. - a group of individuals living under
     one roof and usually under one head
   While all this can be true of a family, it is not the only or the
   correct way that family can be defined. (Your criticism of Webster's
   definition or any common notion regarding the subject has to come here)
   Family is more accurately described as a group of people who might not
   be related by blood or marriage but who sincerely care and love each
   other. Family is there for you every step of the way and provides
   support you could never get anywhere else.
   Families are the building blocks of any society and have been this way
   since the beginning. Almost every aspect of our lives involves the term
   family. In our religion we are part of a “family” of believers. At Penn
   State we are part of one big “family” of students and faculty. Our
   country looks up to one person and is united under this man as a
   “family”. While these examples might be accepted by society today, it
   only describes family in broad terms. Family love is much deeper than
   all of that and is the love you share with your friends and relatives.
   One very common misconception (too soon. You haven't established that
   yet) about family is that its members have to be related by blood,
   marriage, or adoption. In truth, family is anyone you love and care
   about and who also feel the same way about you. Johann Schiller
   described family perfectly when he said; “It is not flesh and blood but
   the heart which makes us fathers and sons.” I believe that my family is
   not only my parents who raised me, my little brother and my other
   relatives, but also my best friends. My great-aunt is my blood relative
   but she knows as much about me as the next person. My friend Caitlin
   can tell you anything you would ever want to know concerning me and we
   can practically read each other’s mind. I am not saying that my
   great-aunt is not considered part of my family but Caitlin is just as
   much a part as my aunt. Family goes hand-in-hand with friendship. In
   order to have a family you need friendship. My family and I do not get
   along just because we are forced to live together. My family are my
   best friends and we get along because we genuinely love each other and
   want to be with each other.
   Family does not have to live under one roof or under one head as
   suggested by the Merriam-Webster dictionary. By saying that everyone
   has to live under one roof you immediately dismiss all friends, aunts,
   uncles, cousins, and grandparents that do not live with you. (Your
   comments on the definition has to come before you establish your own)
   Each individual house is going to have a person in charge, but that is
   just for the individual house. That person in charge is not the head of
   the entire family. My father does not control my cousins and my uncle
   does not control my brother and I. If you truly love and care for all
   your relatives and friends, then living in different houses under
   different heads will not change whether or not you are all family. (The
   rest of the paragraph is merely reiterating what you've said earlier)
   In today’s society most people consider family to be just blood
   relations but in reality family is made of the bonds you share with
   those you care for the most. Family is a completely necessary part of
   anyone’s life. Your family helps you through the tough times and
   provides the needed support to get you through life. Family cares about
   what happens to you, are always there for you, and above all, loves
   you.
   Sep 23 2005 02:12:32
   Reply
   Ler5018:
   so after moving things around and changing some aspect of my essay I
   finished and this is my final draft. Thank you so much everyone for
   your help and for being truthful!!!
   Defining Family
   When most people think of the word family, mother, father, children,
   and relatives immediately come to mind. If you look up the word in the
   Oxford English dictionary you would read:
     family  n. - the group of persons consisting of
     the parents and their children, whether actually living together or
     not; in wider sense, the unity formed by those who are nearly
     connected by blood or affinity.
   While all this can be true of a family, it is not the only or the
   correct way that family can be defined. Family is more accurately
   described as a group of people who might not be related by blood or
   marriage but who sincerely care and love each other. They are there for
   you every step of the way and provide support you could never get
   anywhere else.
   Since the beginning, families have been the building blocks of any
   society. Almost every aspect of our lives involves the term family. In
   our religion we are part of a “family” of believers. At Penn State we
   are part of one big “family” of students and faculty. One person unites
   our country as a “family” whom we all look towards for guidance. While
   these examples might be accepted by society today, it only describes
   family in broad terms. Family love is much deeper than all of that and
   is the love you share with your friends and relatives.
   One very common misconception about family, as seen in the Oxford
   definition, is that its members almost always have to be related by
   blood, marriage, or adoption. In truth, family is anyone you love and
   care about and who also feels the same way about you. German poet
   Johann Schiller described family perfectly when he said; “It is not
   flesh and blood but the heart which makes us fathers and sons.” I
   believe that my family is not only my parents, my little brother and my
   other relatives, but also my best friends. My great-aunt is my blood
   relative but she knows as much about me as the next person. For
   example, my friend Caitlin can tell you anything you would ever want to
   know concerning me and we can practically read each other’s mind. I am
   not saying that my great-aunt is not considered part of my family but
   Caitlin is just as much as my aunt.
   Family goes hand-in-hand with friendship. In order to have a family you
   need friendship. My family and I do not get along just because we are
   forced to live together. My family are my best friends and we get along
   because we genuinely love each other and want to be with each other.
   Every family is going to have its problems, but in the end no one can
   deny the love they have for each other.
   In today’s society most people consider family to be just blood
   relations but in reality family is made of the bonds you share with
   those you care for the most. Family is a completely necessary component
   of anyone’s life. Your family helps you through the tough times. They
   provide the needed support to get you through life. Family cares about
   what happens to you, are always there for you, and above all, they love
   you no matter what.
   Sep 23 2005 04:21:54
   Reply
   Anonymous:
   I love your definition of family. I think that is very true especially
   when it comes to adopted children.
   Oct 07 2005 15:02:43
   Reply
   Anonymous:
   If a "family" consists of members who care for each other, deleting
   from the meaning consanquinity, then how would you define "father"? If
   father are not genitors and only care takers, as you suggest, are you
   suggesting that every birth is a virgin birth? Gil Prost
<T=1-25.txt>
   Family
   Tim Lott's Family column
You can’t choose your family – or your children’s friends
   The only sane response to having to be around people you can’t avoid is
   to get your own back
   Children at a sleepover in a makeshift tent
   ‘You find out the true cost of hospitality when experiencing that
   modern horror, the sleepover’ 
   Tim Lott
   It is often said, and truly, that you can’t choose your family. But the
   lack of choice in a parent’s life goes much further than this. Once you
   have children forming their own extra-familial relationships, you enter
   into a community of people that you can’t avoid. Only you don’t have
   the blood bonds that somehow keep family together (if you’re lucky).
   Inevitably, you are not going to like all of that imposed community.
   The chances are, you could cheerfully throttle some of them.
   With annoying or dislikable kids some recourse is available when they
   are in your home and in your power – ideally using tactics that they
   won’t be able to plausibly squeal about to their parents. You could try
   subtly undermining their self-esteem (“Do you really feel you need to
   have that pudding, dear? It’s very calorific”) or being wilfully
   unfair, perhaps by making sure that their choice of DVD never prevails
   (“Frozen is scratched I’m afraid … but this classic black and white
   documentary on the native wildlife of East Anglia is box fresh”).
   Such shameful – but entirely understandable – malice is particularly
   tempting when experiencing that modern horror, the sleepover. Here, you
   find out the true cost of hospitality when, at 1am, little Scheherazade
   or Cordelia is still cackling at the top of her voice while spreading
   the remnants of an illicit and adhesive midnight feast across the
   bedclothes and keeping your own children from sleeping so they will be
   thoroughly ill-tempered all through the next day.
     The parents can present a bigger problem. Let’s assume that the
     parents of little Crispin are card-carrying fascists …
   As payback, try a little casual cruelty when they show you their
   half-witted drawing of a pony, loudly admiring it before listlessly
   chucking it in the bin, or pointedly offering the dog one of the
   cookies they just made and pressed on you with their own dear little
   hands (ideally, you will have trained the dog to refuse it).
   The parents can present a bigger problem. Let’s assume, for instance,
   that the parents of little Crispin are card-carrying fascists. Very few
   people are quite so theatrically evil nowadays, so just say they swear
   by the Daily Express and have a signed photo of Nigel Farage on their
   mantelpiece.
   You have to sit around at their houses, perhaps when coming to pick up
   the children, while they make lots of veiled yet surly references to
   hijabs and “so-called refugees”. Or the problem may not be the tiresome
   opinions of the parents. It may be their behaviour that is problematic.
   A family with an admirable belief system may nevertheless smoke
   relentlessly inside the house or let the kids have access to
   age-inappropriate viewing material, or have pets with fleas that your
   children pick up and distribute.
   Grin and bear it is the obvious solution, at least when it comes the
   adults. Suck your way through cups of ill-brewed tea and leave after a
   quick biscuit or accepting the invitation for a glass of something
   stronger. Pretend you have an eating disorder when invited over for
   dinner. Otherwise, the best solution is just to leave it alone and
   complain behind their backs. Hypocrisy has served the British well for
   centuries and it has a lot to commend it. Any attempt to curtail the
   behaviour of the parents is liable to be seen as snooty and high-minded
   and is bound to fail.
   The children are another matter. You’ll almost certainly get away with
   it. That’s the beauty of the whole thing. Because all parents know
   their children are so lovable no one could ever wish them ill. That’s
   certainly the case with mine, who I know are beyond all possibility of
   being covertly persecuted by my parental peers. Or that’s what I tell
   them, anyway.
<T=1-26.txt>
Single men will get the right to start a family under new definition of
infertility
   Man with son  Single men and women without medical issues will be
   classed as “infertile” if they do not have children but want them
   20 October 2016  12:48am
   Single men and women without medical issues will be classed as
   “infertile” if they do not have children but want to become a parent,
   the World Health Organisation is to announce.
   In a move which dramatically changes the definition of infertility, the
   WHO will declare that it should no longer be regarded as simply a
   medical condition.
   The authors of the new global standards said the revised definition
   gave every individual “the right to reproduce”.
   Until now, the WHO’s definition of infertility – which it classes as a
   disability – has been the failure to achieve pregnancy after 12 months
   or more of regular unprotected sex.
   Pregnant woman
   The inability to find a partner to have a baby with could be considered
   a disability 
   But the new standard suggests that the inability to find a suitable
   sexual partner – or the lack of sexual relationships which could
   achieve conception – could be considered an equal disability.
   The World Health Organisation sets global health standards and its
   ruling  is likely to place pressure on the NHS to change its policy on
   who can access IVF treatment.
   Legal experts said the new definition, which will be sent out to every
   health minister next year, may force a law change, allowing the
   introduction of commercial surrogacy.
   However the ruling is also likely to lead to accusations that that the
   body  has overstepped its remit by moving from its remit of health into
   matters  of social affairs.
   "It puts a stake in the ground and says an individual's got a right to
   reproduce whether or not they have a partner"Dr David Adamson
   Under the new terms, heterosexual single men and women, and gay men
   and  women who want to have children would be given the same priority
   as couples seeking IVF because of medical fertility problems.
   Dr David Adamson, one of the authors of the new standards, said: “The
   definition of infertility is now written in such a way that it includes
   the rights of all individuals to have a family, and that includes
   single men, single women, gay men, gay women.
   "It puts a stake in the ground and says an individual's got a right to
   reproduce whether or not they have a partner. It's a big change.
   "It fundamentally alters who should be included in this group and who
   should  have access to healthcare. It sets an international legal
   standard.  Countries are bound by it."
   IVF
   The definition could have an impact on IVF provision 
   Critics last night called the decision “absurd nonsense” as they raised
   concerns that couples with medical infertility could lose the chance
   for a child if NHS authorities rewrite their rules.
   Under current NHS policies, fertility treatment is only funded for
   those  proven infertile, and those where fertility is unexplained but
   attempts at conception have failed.
   Guidance from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
   (Nice) says women under the age of  42 should be offered three full
   cycles of IVF, with access for same-sex  couples if surrogacy or
   privately funded fertility treatment fails.
   But few areas achieve this, with rationing deepening across the NHS
   amid  financial pressures. Last month figures from the charity
   Fertility Fairness  showed the real provision of free IVF on the NHS is
   at its lowest since 2004.
   "I think it’s trying to put IVF into a box that it doesn’t fit into
   frankly" Gareth Johnson MP
   The new definitions drawn up by WHO’s international committee
   monitoring  assisted reproductive technology will be sent to every
   health minister for  consideration next year.
   Gareth Johnson MP, former chair of the All Parliamentary Group on
   Infertility, whose own children were born thanks to fertility
   treatment  said: “I’m in general a supporter of IVF. But I’ve never
   regarded  infertility as a disability or a disease but rather a medical
   matter.
   “I’m the first to say you should have more availability of IVF to
   infertile  couples but we need to ensure this whole subject retains
   credibility.
   “This definition runs the risk of undermining the work Nice and others
   have  done to ensure IVF treatment is made available for infertile
   couples when  you get definitions off the mark like this. I think it’s
   trying to put IVF into a box that it doesn’t fit into  frankly.”
    Jonathan Montgomery, Professor of Health Care Law at University
   College  London, said the health service would be forced to review its
   policies in  light of the new standards.
   NHS
   The Department for Health said it would consider the WHO’s final advice
   when published but the NHS was under no obligation to follow it 
   However, he said it was unlikely that the NHS would adopt the WHO
   standards  wholesale.  The legal expert said there could be other
   consequences to altering the  definition of infertility.
   In the UK, it is illegal to pay surrogates, resulting in a severe
   shortage  of women wanting to take on the role.  Similarly, there is a
   national shortage of sperm and eggs, with donors only  able to receive
   expenses.
   “Because wanting to have children would be defined as a disability, it
   could well strengthen the case of gay couples to be allowed access to
   commercial surrogates,” he said.
   “This might force the UK to think again about surrogacy.”
   Sperm and egg
   There is a national shortage of donor sperm and eggs 
   Josephine Quintavalle, from Comment on Reproductive Ethics said: “This
   absurd nonsense is not simply re-defining infertility but completely
   side-lining the biological process and significance of natural
   intercourse  between a man and a woman.
   “How long before babies are created and grown on request completely in
   the  lab?”
   A Department of Health spokesman said it would consider the WHO’s final
   advice when published but the NHS was under no obligation to follow
   it.
   The controversy broke as the American Society for Reproductive
   Medicine  annual congress heard that the 10 millionth IVF baby would be
   born by the  end of 2020.
   Official figures estimate that by 2013 6.5 million had been born using
   the  technique since the first IVF birth in 1978.
   What if IVF doesn’t work?
<T=1-27.txt>
Blended family makes long-distance relationship work
   A long-distance marriage allows one blended family to feel whole, even
   though it is seen as unconventional.
   Toronto's Brian Dennis, top centre, married his partner of five years,
   Jessalyn Coombe, in May, creating a blended family of five. Jessalyn
   continues to live in Calgary with her son, Henry, 7, while Dennis lives
   in Toronto with his two children, Danny, 15, and Jamie, 12.
   Toronto's Brian Dennis, top centre, married his partner of five years,
   Jessalyn Coombe, in May, creating a blended family of five. Jessalyn
   continues to live in Calgary with her son, Henry, 7, while Dennis lives
   in Toronto with his two children, Danny, 15, and Jamie, 12.  
   Brian Dennis and Jessalyn Coombe live 3,400 km apart but that hasn't
   stopped them from blending their families.
   Brian Dennis and Jessalyn Coombe live 3,400 km apart but that hasn't
   stopped them from blending their families. 
   By Brandie WeikleSpecial to the Star
   Thu., Nov. 3, 2016
    Brian Dennis and Jessalyn Coombe tied the knot at Globe Bistro on
   Toronto’s Danforth Ave. in May, but they have no immediate plans to
   move in together. Quite the opposite.
   Theirs is a long-distance marriage. Dennis lives in Toronto. His kids
   from a previous relationship, Danny, 15, and Jamie, 12, live with him
   half of the time. Coombe is based in Calgary where she shares 50-50
   custody of son, Henry, 7, with her former husband.
   The two met through working in the film and television industry and
   were together for five years before they married — an arrangement that
   initially raised eyebrows.
   “I would say about 100 per cent of people thought we were nuts until
   they were with us, and then it became really obvious that there was no
   other alternative and that we were going to find a way,” says Dennis.
   But their predicament — one that Coombe calls “a logistical problem,
   not a relationship problem” — may become a whole lot more common.
   Article Continued Below
   Today’s divorcees are more likely than ever to share the parenting
   equally, says Nathalie Boutet, a collaborative family lawyer in Toronto
   — and that’s a good thing. The law on custody and access in Ontario
   starts “with a presumption that both parents should have equal time
   with the kids.” Studies have shown that it is best in most cases for
   both parents to have significant involvement in their children’s lives,
   she says. That means it’s now much less common than it was a generation
   ago for dads to see their kids only every second weekend.
   But it also means that couples such as Dennis and Coombe, whether
   separated by provinces or just a suburb or two, are tethered to the
   cities and towns where their child’s other parent lives. In fact,
   separation agreements often include a clause that establishes a
   geographic radius where each parent must remain living, says Boutet.
   So what’s a parent to do when they’ve fallen in love with someone who
   also has kids and doesn’t exactly live around the corner?
   Coombe says their situation is helped along by flexible work
   arrangements. Brian is a producer who works intensively on projects and
   then has periods of downtime. She has meetings that bring her to
   Toronto. They spend long weekends and vacations together as a family.
   “Part of it is helped by technology, actually, because when we’re apart
   we’re able to FaceTime or Skype, and actually see each other in real
   time, which helps us to connect,” she says.
   Both say they’d rather be in the same room every day if they could be,
   but there are some upsides to the tricky circumstances — particularly
   when it pertains to the kids’ adjustment.
   The relationships between the step-parents, stepchildren and both sets
   of siblings have developed slowly over time in a really unthreatening
   way, says Dennis. “It wasn’t like the moving van pulled up in the
   driveway and unloaded a bunch of stuff and I said, ‘I’d like you to
   meet your new stepmother.’ That shock never happened.”
   That’s a big upside, says Boutet. “It’s very complicated to blend
   families, so some people wait for the kids to be in university before
   they move in together to avoid conflicts or complications.”
   Meanwhile, the times Coombe and Dennis have which each other are
   quality time. “When you’re together every day and you’re thinking about
   the kids and lunches and meals, it can get lost — that focus on each
   other,” says Coombe.
   The book The New “I Do” — Reshaping Marriage for Skeptics, Realists and
   Rebels, which explores the various ways people are redefining the
   institution of marriage, certainly backs that up. One of the new models
   outlined is the “living alone together marriage,” says journalist Vicki
   Larson, who co-authored the book with therapist Susan Pease Gadoua.
   “Studies have shown that couples that choose this model are just as
   committed, feel just as secure as people who live together and they
   spend more quality time together,” says Larson. “They’re not sitting in
   front of their TV or on their computers kind of parallel playing.
   They’re actually engaging with each other when they see each other.”
   Still, Dennis says he and his wife do both dream of a more conventional
   family life.
   “While Jessalyn and I are working very hard at making our current
   family situation work, we view this as a space we’re moving through in
   order to get to the place where we can be together everyday.”
   Brandie Weikle is a parenting expert and the host of The New Family
<T=1-28.txt>
Love is all it takes to be a family
   The word love and the term family should be united in definition.
   Tradition dictates to us that a family consists of a father, mother and
   at least one child.
   Love, as we discover through living our existence, is a phenomenon
   second to none and people cherish the moments as one unites with the
   person of one’s choice, regardless of sexual orientation.
   This we were told was an unaccepted, formed family unit and that meant
   the traditional nucleus must be maintained because religious and other
   authorities tell us so. After all, that is what the Bible says we must
   do.
   As we know, and with the advent of inclusive thinking and nature’s
   wonderful gift of the natural progression of falling in love, we are
   now in a world of a more accepting society where we all have the right
   for a happy existence. We fall in love with the person of our own
   individual choice rather than accept the person that is the perfect one
   according to parents and friends. We choose on the basis of our own
   inner feelings.
   The number of those who constitute a “family” is no longer an issue as
   in the past. In Canada we learn, as in many western nations, that those
   who choose a partner who is compatible and one who is our chosen mate
   in love, are no less an accepted unit than any other. From the moment
   we are born, our parents and others instil the thoughts in our minds
   that at some point we meet someone, of course of the opposite sex, to
   have children, because our parents wish to be grandparents. That was a
   given.
   Today, that thought persists, but to a much lesser extent.
   The word “family” is usually defined as parents and their children,
   however, in our more inclusive world we now recognize family as those
   who are cohabitating, with or without offspring, or indeed living
   separately and are committed to each other and therefore a family unit.
   Sometimes living together is not an option, but nevertheless a true
   love keeps the relationship intact.  Love is not confined to a certain
   situation or place, but survives because of commitment, regardless of
   sexual orientation, gender, type of family nucleus, or simply defining
   their love as family.
   Times have changed dramatically and the fact members of our society are
   able to express love as they feel it is of profound importance. Love is
   the inner feelings for another and we must celebrate that and respect
   the outcome as a positive. Marriage is not the only family unit.
   Religious institutions, for the most part, speak out against such
   situations and insist on marriage. The great news is that people who
   find love also become a family, perhaps not in the traditional sense,
   but nevertheless with the same intent in that love makes them equal.
   This will remain a serious issue for some and frowned upon, dismissed
   as morally wrong, but love prevails and that is the end result. Love
   equals family and love is all it takes to be a family.
   Gerard Veldhoven is a longtime activist for the lesbian, gay, bisexual
   and transgender community. His column appears Wednesdays in The News.
<T=1-29.txt>
<T=1-3.txt>
   family (n.) Look up family at Dictionary.com
          early 15c., "servants of a household," from Latin familia
          "family servants, domestics collectively, the servants in a
          household," thus also "members of a household, the estate,
          property; the household, including relatives and servants,"
          abstract noun formed from famulus "servant, slave," which is of
          unknown origin.
          The Latin word rarely appears in the sense "parents with their
          children," for which domus (see domestic (adj.)) was used.
          Derivatives of famulus include famula "serving woman, maid,"
          famulanter "in the manner of a servant," famulitas "servitude,"
          familiaris "of one's household, private," familiaricus "of
          household slaves," familiaritas "close friendship."
          In English, sense of "collective body of persons who form one
          household under one head and one domestic government, including
          parents, children, and servants, and as sometimes used even
          lodgers or boarders" [Century Dictionary] is from 1540s. From
          1660s as "parents with their children, whether they dwell
          together or not," also in a more general sense, "persons closely
          related by blood, including aunts, uncles, cousins;" earlier
          "those who descend from a common progenitor, a house, a lineage"
          (1580s). Hence, "any group of things classed as kindred based on
          common distinguishing characteristics" (1620s); as a scientific
          classification, between genus and order, from 1753.
     I have certainly known more men destroyed by the desire to have wife
     and child and to keep them in comfort than I have seen destroyed by
     drink and harlots. [William Butler Yeats, "Autobiography"]
          Replaced Old English hiwscipe, hiwan "family," cognate with Old
          Norse hjon "one of the household; married couple, man and wife;
          domestic servant," and with Old High German hiwo "husband," hiwa
          "wife," also with Lithuanian šeimyna "family," Gothic haims
          "village," Old English ham "village, home" (see home (n.)).
          As an adjective from c. 1600; with the meaning "suitable for a
          family," by 1807. Family values first recorded 1966. Phrase in a
          family way "pregnant" is from 1796. Family circle is 1809;
          family man "man devoted to wife and children, man inclined to
          lead a domestic life" is 1856 (earlier it meant "thief," 1788,
          from family in a slang sense of "the fraternity of thieves").
          Family-tree "graph of ancestral relations" attested from 1752:
     He was dressed in his best Coat, which had served him in the same
     Capacity before my Birth, and possibly, might be but little short in
     Antiquity, to the Root of his third Family Tree; and indeed, he made
     a venerable Figure in it. ["A Genuine Account of the Life and
     Transactions of Howell ap David Price, Gentleman of Wales," London,
     1752]
     Happy family an assemblage of animals of diverse habits and
     propensities living amicably, or at least quietly, together in one
     cage. [Century Dictionary, 1902]
          The phrase is attested from 1844.
<T=1-30.txt>
Definition of infertility now includes healthy singletons
   Definition of infertility now includes healthy singletons
   The redefined term could lead to more people requesting IVF treatment
   Single men and women without any medical problems could soon have the
   right to start IVF treatment to become parents.
   The World Health Organisation (WHO) has taken a big step to give
   everyone ‘the right to reproduce’ by changing the definition of
   ‘infertility’.
   'She has no set hour to clock off and isn't rewarded with overtime or
   bonuses': Loving husband posts heartfelt dedication to his wife who is
   a stay-at-home mum Man writes touching tribute to his wife to remind
   her she’s more than a stay-at-home mum
   Currently, the term is used to describe people who have failed to
   become pregnant after 12 months of trying to conceive naturally,
   according to The Telegraph.
   But the new definition will now extend to heterosexual single men and
   women, and gay men and women who don’t have partners, but want
   to become parents.
   The redefined standard will be sent to health ministers next year,
   which is likely to place pressure on the NHS to change its policy on
   those eligible for IVF treatment.
   Single men win right to start a family
   The new definition could also benefit gay men and women looking to have
   children via IVF 
   But the decision was branded ‘absurd nonsense’ by critics and raised
   concerns that couples with medical infertility could lose the chance to
   have children.
   People think the ‘Refugee child’ in the picture is an
   ‘interpreter’
   Gareth Johnson MP, whose own children were born thanks to fertility
   treatment,  told the newspaper WHO is ‘trying to put IVF into a box
   that doesn’t fit’.
   ‘This definition runs the risk of undermining the work Nice (National
   Institute for Health and Care Excellence) and others have  done to
   ensure IVF treatment is made available for infertile couples when  you
   get definitions off the mark like this,’ he added.
What's wrong with surrogates and sperm donors?
   It’s illegal in the UK for someone to pay a surrogate to bear their
   child, and this has resulted in severe shortages of women wanting to be
   a surrogate.
   There is also a national shortage of sperm and egg donors.
   Fertility treatment is only funded for those proven infertile, so could
   open the doors for those who have failed to find a surrogate or donor.
<T=1-31.txt>
   Who makes up a family?
   For most Americans today, family includes a range of loved ones--from
   children, parents and grandparents to spouses, significant others,
   siblings and close friends. However, the most prevalent family
   definitions in law and policy leave out many of these important
   relationships. All too often, policymakers define family narrowly,
   based on an outdated 1950s conception of a married husband and wife and
   their biological children. Fortunately, recent paid sick days victories
   in Los Angeles, Minneapolis and Chicago, as well as executive action by
   the White House, embrace a more realistic and inclusive definition.
   According to the U.S. Census, nearly 80 percent of households in the
   U.S. depart from the "nuclear family" model of a married husband and
   wife and their children. Many family trends contribute to this fact.
   For example, approximately 57 million individuals in the U.S. live in
   multigenerational households, double the 1980 figure, and about 20
   percent of households with children include non-relatives or extended
   family. Americans are also waiting longer to marry and are living with
   significant others at higher rates than in past decades. And surveys
   show that LGBTQ individuals, who are too often forced to leave home and
   build their own support networks, are more likely to rely on close
   friends for emotional support, caregiving needs and help in an
   emergency.
   This month, the country's second and third most populous cities took a
   big step forward in recognizing that families come in all shapes and
   sizes. Beginning on July 1, 2016, workers in Los Angeles will be
   entitled to earn a minimum number of paid sick days that can be used to
   care for personal or family health and safety needs. Workers in Chicago
   will gain this same right on July 1, 2017. The L.A. and Chicago paid
   sick days laws both cover a broad set of family relationships,
   including children, parents, spouses, domestic partners, parents of a
   spouse or domestic partner, grandparents, grandchildren and siblings.
   Yet both laws also set an important new standard for the growing paid
   sick days movement by including "chosen family"-- an individual with
   whom the worker has such a close relationship that the individual is
   equivalent to family, even absent a blood or legal relationship.
   These new laws will have enormous practical benefits for workers. For
   example, a 2007 Los Angeles County Health Survey found that 1.2 million
   residents in L.A. County provide informal, unpaid care to aging, ill or
   disabled adults. Of these caregivers, more than 23 percent -- or
   approximately 284,000 people -- reported that they provide care for
   close friends or extended family members (family members other than a
   child, parent, parent-in-law, spouse, domestic partner, grandparent or
   sibling). Many of these caregivers struggle to combine their work
   responsibilities with the need to care for loved ones, and
   employer-provided leave policies, when they exist at all, often fail to
   recognize these extended and chosen family members. The L.A. paid sick
   days coalition raised awareness about this need and worked with
   lawmakers to pass a paid sick days law that reflects the true nature of
   family and caregiving relationships in the city.
   Fortunately, we have a long-standing model for this definition. Our
   country's largest employer, the federal government, already allows more
   than 2 million federal employees to use paid leave to care for chosen
   family. The government's broad family definition has existed in
   personnel rules for more than five decades, and has repeatedly been
   expanded and applied more broadly without issue. The model is also
   being adopted in other contexts, including a presidential Executive
   Order that will guarantee paid sick days to employees of federal
   contractors. And last month, a bill was introduced in the U.S. House of
   Representatives to expand the FMLA's limited family definition to
   include new relationships, including chosen family.
   Other places are modernizing their family definition as well.
   Minneapolis recently passed a paid sick days law that is the first in
   the country to cover all members of the employee's household. When sick
   or during a medical emergency, we often seek care from those who are
   both emotionally and physically closest to us. Roommates, significant
   others, and additional members of the household -- whether extended
   relatives or close friends -- provide a critical care and support
   system. Minneapolis' new paid sick time law acknowledges the importance
   of these relationships.
   We are fortunate to work with national, state and local partners across
   the country who are fighting for policy change, collecting stories, and
   raising awareness about the need to expand family recognition. From
   Oregon, Montana and Arizona to New Mexico and Washington D.C., social
   justice advocates are pushing lawmakers to adopt broad family
   definitions that include chosen family. Cities as diverse as L.A.,
   Minneapolis and Chicago have recognized that families today are
   incredibly varied and dynamic. It's time for other cities and states to
   follow their lead.
   Wendy Chun-Hoon is the D.C. Director of Family Values @ Work. Jared
   Make is a Senior Staff Attorney at A Better Balance. Together, the
   authors created an LGBTQ/Work-Family Project that is working across
   social justice movements to advocate for the rights of LGBTQ workers
   and expand family definitions in law and policy.
<T=1-32.txt>
    USA TODAY
Pope to release landmark text on the definition of family
   Rosie Scammell, Religion News Service 12:24 p.m. EDT April 7, 2016
   AP VATICAN POPE I ITA
   Pope Francis waves to the crowd as he arrives on his pope-mobile for
   his weekly general audience, in St. Peter's Square at the Vatican on
   April 6, 2016.(Photo: Andrew Medichini, AP)
   VATICAN CITY (RNS) Pope Francis’ landmark text on the family, scheduled
   for release on Friday, is expected to encourage a more open attitude
   toward the non-nuclear family but contain no change in church doctrine.
   The apostolic exhortation, “Amoris Laetitia” (“The Joy of Love”), will
   be the culmination of two synods in which family matters were hotly
   debated by bishops. Since the second such conference concluded in
   October, Francis has been charged with producing a defining text to
   determine the Catholic Church’s way forward on everything from divorce
   to pornography.
   The world’s 1.2 billion Catholics will likely find a push for pastoral
   care and a less rigid focus on doctrine.
   That is not to say the pontiff is about to sweep aside the rules
   that govern the Catholic Church. Progressives will be disappointed by
   the likely decision not to alter the definition of gay relationships as
   “intrinsically disordered,” nor rule that divorced and remarried
   Catholics can receive Communion.
   John S. Grabowski, an associate professor at Catholic University of
   America who served as an expert to the 2015 synod, said the pope will
   recognize families in different forms without delinking family from
   marriage and parenthood.
   He said Francis will be “talking about the family as multigenerational,
   not just nuclear. He’s casting the net of family more widely and more
   inclusively,” Grabowski told RNS.
   But he added there will be no opening to same-sex couples. “At various
   points, Pope Francis has been insistent that having a mother and a
   father is non-negotiable.”
   Despite this, the pope is expected to call on priests to accompany
   Catholics who fall afoul of church rules, as opposed to criticizing
   them, Grabowski said.
   Gerard Mannion, a professor in Catholic studies at Georgetown
   University, said the apostolic exhortation will overall be a positive
   text that moves away from the “one size fits all” standard.
   “It will be a shift in tone on the church’s intervention of family
   life, human relations and sexuality,” he told RNS.
   “The hint I get is that the emphasis and way forward is the need for
   stressing pastoral realism. That would reflect Francis’ major teaching
   documents to date,” Mannion added. “He’s a very realistic and
   pastoral-oriented pope.”
   This recognition of different realities, including the impacts of
   migration on families and marriages between faiths, will likely result
   in the pope’s push for discernment at the local level.
   Francis is additionally expected to use his text to call for greater
   guidance for young Catholics as they embark on marriage and having a
   family, while also stating that issues such as violence and sexual
   abuse should be addressed.
   But although the word from the pope has been eagerly anticipated,
   Mannion predicted the compassionate and inclusive text will push the
   focus away from the Vatican: “For pastors and lay people (the pope)
   will stress that they have to dialogue and listen to their conscience;
   it’s not going to be Rome dictating what happens.”
   (Rosie Scammell covers the Vatican for Religion News Service)
<T=1-33.txt>
   At Work, Fighting for a Broad Definition of Family
   Broad Definition of Family
   The federal government just made it easier for certain workers to get
   paid sick time to care for their partners and nonblood relatives.
   By Preston Van Vliet
   April 08 2016 6:12 AM EDT
   The U.S. Department of Labor did a pretty amazing thing recently with
   proposed rules that would guarantee employees of federal contractors
   the right to earn up to seven days of paid sick time. The rules would
   not only let workers use this time to care for themselves and their
   families but also recognize that families do not fit one mold. Covered
   workers could use their paid sick time to care for loved ones with whom
   they have such a close relationship that they are equivalent to family
   — even absent a blood relationship. In an age when our families take
   many forms, including multigenerational families, extended families,
   single-parent families, LGBTQ families, and “chosen” families, this
   language is especially meaningful.
   Forty percent of American workers lack even a single paid sick day, and
   workers who do earn sick time may be unable to use it to care for a
   spouse, partner, or child — let alone extended relatives and chosen
   family. Advocates have been fighting throughout the country to pass
   laws that ensure all workers will have paid sick time to use for
   themselves or loved ones. But limits on the definition of family mean
   many workers will not be able to take care of those who depend on them.
   Such limits are particularly troubling when nearly 80 percent of
   households in the U.S. do not fit the “nuclear family” model of a
   married mom and dad and their children.
   Our families are made up of more than just biological or legal
   relations: They are loved ones who are there through our struggles;
   they provide care when we need it; they rely on us for support and they
   share in our joys.
   Families most affected by narrow family definitions often work in jobs
   that pay low wages and provide few benefits, come from communities of
   color and immigrant communities, and include disabled individuals. This
   results in further marginalization and isolation of these communities,
   where systemic exclusion through policies, the specific enforcement of
   policies, and lack of secure, inclusive safety net programs perpetuate
   a culture that forces these communities to fend for themselves in
   whatever ways they can in order to just survive.
   I’m a Michigander, born and raised, and I never thought I was going to
   leave. But when the love of my life moved across the country to find a
   better quality of life — because, let’s face it, it’s difficult being
   both low-income and LGBTQ in Michigan — my plans changed. We now reside
   in Washington, D.C., a welcoming activist community. D.C. is also a
   place where I can have access to medically necessary transgender health
   care without having to pay tens of thousands of dollars out of pocket
   as I would have in Michigan. My biological family members — the
   individuals most typically defined as “family” in paid leave laws and
   policies — are now hundreds of miles away from me. My family in D.C.
   consists of my partner, a close trans community, and — serendipitously
   — my childhood best friend. If something serious happened to me or my
   partner, we would rely on this chosen family to help us survive.
   Not only are current public paid leave policies insufficient, but we’re
   now seeing more and more legislation that would let businesses actively
   deny services and benefits to families based on their beliefs about
   what families should look like. They are in line with the religious
   exemption bills that have been popping up in states across the country
   — they leave LGBTQ families vulnerable to discrimination and could
   result in the denial of essential paid leave benefits to many
   individuals and families.
   Despite these setbacks, there is enormous progress to celebrate. As a
   national organizer with A Better Balance and Family Values @ Work, I am
   fortunate to work with inspiring coalitions and advocates around the
   country to improve the lives of all families — not just the
   “traditional” ones.
   It wasn’t until I began my current job that I fully appreciated how
   laws and policies could be drafted to both recognize and provide
   support to my chosen family. I am proud to be part of a growing effort
   across the country to raise awareness — among policy makers, business
   owners, and community members — about the need for a broad definition
   of family. Coalitions from D.C. to Michigan and beyond are fighting for
   these essential changes as part of a national movement.
   We are in a pivotal moment to change how decision-makers at the local,
   state, and federal levels understand what families really look like.
   Although the Supreme Court decision on marriage equality represented
   significant progress, marriage does not define or address the needs of
   many families. The administration’s proposed rule for paid sick days
   for federal contractors is a great step forward. Together, we must
   defeat these pernicious religious exemption bills and make sure that
   our families — whatever form they take — are protected by public
   policies. Only then will we achieve equality and workplace justice.
<T=1-34.txt>
   July 10, 2015
What Is ‘Family’? High School Test Question Redefines Definition, Counts This
Student’s Answer Wrong
   Tara West
   A seemingly innocent question on a high school student’s health test
   has caused a stir on social media. The test asks a multiple choice
   question asking for the definition of “family.” The student chose what
   he felt was the most accurate answer provided in the five multiple
   choices, but was docked five points for an “incorrect” answer. The
   student took a photo of his answer and what the school deemed to be the
   “correct” answer and showed it to his father. The father then posted
   the image to Twitter, questioning if the “correct” answer is correct at
   all.
   The Blaze reported on an interesting multiple choice test question
   given to a high school student on a health exam. The question was
   overly basic, simply asking for the definition of family. However,
   there was one problem: The actual definition of family was not one of
   the multiple choice answers. Instead, the student saw the answers
   below.
     My son was marked down 5 percent on a high school health test
     because he chose this “incorrect” definition of family.
     pic.twitter.com/TnisIK51Mm
     — Will Saletan  July 8, 2015
   Will Saletan’s son chose the answer, “a collection of blood-related
   individuals living together” as the most accurate. However, the answer
   was counted wrong and five points were docked from his test score. The
   correct answer, according to the test answer key, was “a collection of
   individuals who care for and about each other.” So which definition is
   more accurate?
   One astute commenter points out that none of the five choices are
   correct as they do not fall in line with any of the major dictionaries’
   definitions. Here are the definitions of family, according to five
   different dictionaries.
      Merriam-Webster: “a group of people who are related to each other”
      Cambridge dictionary: “a social group of parents, children, and
       sometimes grandparents, uncles, aunts, and others who are related”
      Wiktionary: “A group of people who are closely related to one
       another (by blood, marriage or adoption)”
      Dictionary.com: “A basic social unit consisting of parents and
       their children, considered as a group, whether dwelling together or
       not”
   Going down the line, it seems that the student’s answer was more
   closely tied with dictionary definition of family than the test key
   answer.
   What do you think? Was the “correct” test answer or the student’s test
   answer closer to the actual definition of family? Should the test
   question be amended?
<T=1-35.txt>
   TheBlaze High School Test Question Asks for Definition of ‘Family.
   A dad posted to Twitter a screenshot of what he said was a
   multiple-choice question from his son’s high school health test.
   The question asked for a definition of “family.” His son chose “a
   collection of related-by-blood individuals living together.”
   But that was the wrong answer.
     My son was marked down 5 percent on a high school health test
     because he chose this "incorrect" definition of family.
     — Will Saletan  July 8, 2015
   The correct choice? “A collection of individuals who care for and about
   each other.”
   Will Saleton said his son was marked down 5 percent “because he chose
   this ‘incorrect’ definition of family.”
   Some responders to Saleton’s post noted that mothers and fathers aren’t
   related by blood and that many parents adopt, which would make his
   son’s choice incorrect anyway. Saleton and others noted that often kids
   are too young to “care for” adults in a household, which makes the
   “correct” answer insufficient.
   One responder noted that the “correct” answer “reduces family to any
   group of strangers.”
   What do you say the definition of “family” is? Let us know in the
   comments!
<T=1-36.txt>
   european union , mum, dad, and kids , same-sex 'marriage'
   BRUSSELS, April 28, 2016 (LifeSiteNews) – A coalition of Christian and
   pro-family groups in seven countries, calling itself “Mum, Dad & Kids,”
   is campaigning to gather one million signatures across Europe to get
   the European Union to consider legislation establishing the natural
   definition of the family and marriage.
   Groups such as Hungary’s Emberi Méltóság Központ, and France’s La Manif
   pour Tous, and others in Croatia, Hungary, Poland, Sweden, Portugal,
   Slovakia, and Germany are jointly campaigning for the necessary one
   million signatures to propose legislation to the European Commission,
   the EU’s executive. The commission can choose to put the bill before
   the European Parliament or not.  The group has until December 11 to
   marshal its support.
   The proposal argues that the law is needed because the institution of
   the family is being eroded by social forces at the same time as its
   meaning is being muddied by new EU laws defining it to include people
   in “a committed relationship in a joint household”—covering both same
   sex relationships and unmarried heterosexual ones.
   This is not good enough, the organizers say. They want “marriage” to
   mean “solely a permanent and life-long union between one man and one
   woman” and “family” to mean only the married couple, “their common
   progeny and their direct descendants.”
   The coalition argues that marriage has existed as a legal entity with
   special protection because it has a clear benefit for the common good,
   the bearing and rearing of children.
   Parents who merely have produced a child but form no relationship
   together to raise her are not in a family, the coalition contends. Nor
   does the existence of “sentiments of love” between two adults make them
   a family unless they “freely express” their will to “found a family.”
   The proposed law does not force individual countries to accept the
   coalition’s definition of marriage. But it does apply one definition to
   all European Union legislation and rescinds recent efforts to sneak in
   definitions that implicitly include homosexual couples.
   It would also set up a legal firewall so that what is accepted as a
   family in one country cannot be forced onto another country. Therefore,
   if one country accepts and ratifies polygamous marriages, and one such
   family moved to another country that did not accept that definition,
   the second country would not be required to recognize or enforce
   spousal support for more than one wife.
   In the U.S. before the Supreme Court made same-sex “marriage” legal,
   many states which did not recognize same-sex “marriage” were
   nevertheless forced by judges to accept them when performed in other
   states that did.
   The European Commission has recently considered three initiatives. One
   called for a halt to experimentation on animals; another, for a halt to
   experimentation on human embryos; and a third called for a recognition
   of a human right to drinking water. The commission refused to let any
   of them come to a vote in the Parliament.
<T=1-37.txt>
‘Ontario’s laws…do not reflect our view on who can form a family’: Wynne
pledges to end limbo for LGBT parents
   Ashley Csanady | May 31, 2016 3:55 PM ET
   More from Ashley Csanady | @AshleyCsanady
   'Ontario's laws are outdated and do not reflect our views on who can
   form a family,' Wynne said, adding she's 'committed to fixing this'
   Premier Kathleen Wynne pledged on Tuesday to update a law in Ontario
   that forces some parents to adopt their own children.
   Currently, many couples — particularly those in lesbian relationships —
   discover only after their child is born that their birth certificate
   may not be as binding as they thought. That’s because provincial laws,
   as written, state only a birth mother and her live-in male partner or a
   biological male father are immediately recognized as parents.
   “Ontario’s laws are outdated and do not reflect our views on who can
   form a family,” Wynne said, adding she’s “committed to fixing this.”
   For decades, that gap has forced many couples to adopt their own
   children — mostly lesbian mothers, simply because their partners were
   the ones who carried the baby. Because surrogacy has its own complex
   set of rules, couples who use a surrogate aren’t caught up in the same
   legal limbo, and instead have parenting agreements worked out before
   birth. Straight couples who use an egg or sperm donor whom they know
   could also be affected by the outdated law, experts have said.
   It’s a costly and emotionally draining process that led a group of LGBT
   advocates to launch in April an ongoing Charter challenge against the
   government. It alleges the current law unfairly discriminates against
   lesbian couples, families with more than two parents involved and trans
   men who give birth and don’t want to be identified on the birth
   certificate as a mother.
   NDP MPP Cheri DiNovo first tabled a bill to end the legal uncertainty
   last October. She accused the government of “dithering” on the file and
   said they should just pass her bill instead of waiting until the fall.
   However, government members say they need to table their own
   legislation, as their analysis requires some tweaks to DiNovo’s bill.
   With the house set to rise June 9, that bill won’t be introduced until
   September. Wynne said this is, in part, to ensure it complies with
   efforts to harmonize laws across the country.
   But Cy and Ruby’s Act — which is what DiNovo dubbed her bill in honour
   of two kids whose mothers had to adopt them because of the outdated law
   — is modelled after B.C.’s bill. DiNovo said Ontario is actually
   lagging on this, given four other provinces have already updated their
   laws.
   “Everyday that they dither on this, everyday there are other families
   going and having babies that do not have equal rights,” she said.
   “There should be some sense of urgency on this on the government’s
   part… I don’t understand the delay.”
   “I want to see this definition changed in Ontario by the end of the
   year,” Wynne said, a day before she’ll raise the flag to launch
   Toronto’s month-long LGBT Pride festival. A protest calling on her to
   update the law was scheduled before she made the
   She spoke during an event to formally open Egale Canada’s new Toronto
   shelter, the first of its kind to offer temporary and transitional
   housing as well as mental health and addiction support specifically to
   LGBT youth. The province committed $1.5 million over three years to
   facilitate Egale’s work as an LGBT advocacy and support organization.
<T=1-38.txt>
Methodists in England encouraged to broaden definition of family
   by Gregory Tomlin | 15 September, 2015
   A rainbow flag flies
   with the Union flag above British Cabinet Offices, marking the first
   day Britain has allowed same sex marriages, in London March 29, 2014.
   Prime Minister David Cameron hailed Britain's first gay marriages on
   Saturday, saying marriage was not something that should be denied to
   anyone because of their sexuality.
   NEW YORK (Christian Examiner) – A new study from the Methodist Church
   in Britain is encouraging church workers and ministers to adopt a
   greater level of understanding and inclusion for new types of
   "families," including those composed of same-sex couples.
   "What does the word 'family' mean in the twenty-first century?" A
   summary of the study asks.
   "This is challenging, as what constitutes 'being a family' eludes being
   clearly defined. In contemporary society family is found in a variety
   of places and takes a number of different forms that go beyond blood
   relationships and relationships established by law. It is vital
   therefore for us to develop a clear understanding of the kinds of
   families taking part in family activities and the support offered to
   them by churches."
   The study, drawn from surveys, research and interviews, addresses
   families composed of heterosexual parents, parents with special needs
   children, grandparents raising grandchildren, single parents,
   multi-faith families, and "same sex couples with children."
   According to the full report, only a "few interviewees" believed the
   "concept of family was closely related to their theological
   understanding of the Bible and was one of father, mother and children
   living in the Christian faith, and for some people the Governments'
   introduction of same sex marriage was outside their definition of what
   constitutes family."
   “This is challenging, as what constitutes 'being a family' eludes being
   clearly defined. In contemporary society family is found in a variety
   of places and takes a number of different forms that go beyond blood
   relationships and relationships established by law. It is vital
   therefore for us to develop a clear understanding of the kinds of
   families taking part in family activities and the support offered to
   them by churches.”
   - Methodist Church of Britain Report
   England (and Wales) opened the doors to same-sex marriage in 2014, but
   the Church of England – which still regards marriage as being only
   between one man and one woman – does not wed same-sex couples. The
   Methodist Church of Britain also has not authorized the marriage of
   same-sex couples, though it has softened its stance on the matter.
   On its website, the church claims: "Within our Church there is a
   spectrum of views on human sexuality. The Methodist Conference 2014
   reaffirmed the current Methodist Standing Orders which state our
   belief, 'that marriage is a gift of God and that it is God's intention
   that a marriage should be a life-long union in body, mind and spirit of
   one man and one woman.'
   "At the same time we have for nearly twenty years explicitly
   recognized, affirmed and celebrated the participation and ministry of
   lesbians and gay men, and been committed to a pilgrimage of faith to
   combat discrimination and give dignity and worth to people whatever
   their sexuality. The Conference in 2014 confirmed that there was no
   reason why Methodists may not enter legally formed same sex marriage
   (i.e. civil marriage) or form a civil partnership."
   The denomination is currently studying how to approach the issue of
   same-sex marriage.
   According to a news release accompanying the report, Gail Adcock,
   Families Ministries Development Officer in the Methodist Church, said
   the church's understanding of what families need in the modern context
   goes "beyond the concept of the nuclear family to encompass a diversity
   of relationships. Once we recognize this, we can adopt more inclusive
   language and respond more effectively to minister and support families
   in the contexts that they are in."
   Adcock said more support is needed for various "unique" families.
   "If we are to be effective family workers we can't just presume all
   families are the same. We must treat each family as unique and provide
   relevant support to them in the circumstances that they are in," Adcock
   said.
<T=1-39.txt>
Politicians: don't talk about 'family' like it only has one definition
   Syreeta McFadden
   Stump speeches and commentary still discuss family as something akin to
   looking at the country through soft-focused, sepia-toned glasses
   LEAVE IT TO BEAVER
   Sure, the Cleavers were a family. But families also look like so many
   other things. 
   When the US supreme court enshrined same-sex marriage as an inalienable
   civil right last month, justices managed to both expand and cement a
   traditional notion of “family”. It expanded because now two men or two
   women could marry and make a family – but that reiterates the very
   conservative notion that marriage is the linchpin of the family unit.
   For many, marriage is the symbolic cornerstone to the definition of
   family, and I’m ecstatic that whomever wishes to marry will never be
   constitutionally prohibited from doing so. But I’d also like to
   acknowledge that marriage isn’t always what every person desires or
   achieves. And family, as a concept, isn’t fixed to marriage. It is a
   fluid relationship of intimacies between communities that aren’t always
   confined to blood.
   In the US, families are increasingly “more ethnically, racially,
   religiously and stylistically diverse than half a generation ago,”
   according to a 2013 New York Times story about the shift. Family
   compositions now include “good friends [who] join forces as part of the
   ‘voluntary kin’ movement, sharing medical directives, wills, even
   adopting one another legally” or “single people live alone and proudly
   consider themselves families of one — more generous and civic-minded
   than so-called ‘greedy marrieds.’”
   Political discourse appears to lag behind this lived reality. Stump
   speeches and commentary still feature something akin to looking at the
   country through soft-focused, sepia-toned glasses of 1950s sitcoms. But
   I’m no longer willing to accept any presidential candidate or current
   sitting president repeating a narrative of absenteeism and
   condescension. Let’s retire that calcified thinking and language.
   I’m looking at you, President Obama. Too often, he returns to the
   narrative of black father absenteeism, using traditional families as
   the touchstone for what counts as good. It makes my teeth itch; though
   there is undoubtedly a small subset of children (not only of color) who
   are harmed by absent dads, they are a very particular category of
   at-risk youth that doesn’t reflect the black population writ large. And
   when he condescends to black audiences in churches or college
   commencement addresses promulgating that canard, he is also indirectly
   devaluing other family compositions. Republicans hoping to succeed him
   also fail to value “unconventional” families.
   Intergenerational households and singles count too in creating
   stability for children, and a father in the home isn’t always a
   guarantee of a child’s success in the face of stagnant wages or
   outright theft of working poor people. A father in the home is no balm
   for hyper-segregated communities starved of goods and services. A
   father in the home is no salve for a crumbling infrastructure and
   pitiful public transportation networks for women and men seeking
   sustainable employment so far out of their communities or for children
   commuting to decent schools. A father in the home doesn’t stop a wave
   of public school closures. It also bespeaks of a very patriarchal way
   of thinking about family (and an untrue one; according to a 2013 report
   from the US Department of Health and Human Services, black fathers are
   deeply involved in parenting their kids).
   Candidate Hillary Clinton seemed to intimate a more nuanced framing of
   the concerns of the new American family, adapting a language that
   tipped toward an inclusive and fluid definition of family in the
   American body politic. “[I]t is way past time to end the outrage of so
   many women still earning less than men on the job — and women of color
   often making even less. This isn’t a women’s issue. It’s a family
   issue,” she said:
   Just like raising the minimum wage is a family issue. Expanding
   childcare is a family issue. Declining marriage rates is a family
   issue. The unequal rates of incarceration is a family issue. Helping
   more people with an addiction or a mental health problem get help is a
   family issue. In America, every family should feel like they belong.
   Clinton is right. We should recognize that family isn’t defined by
   marriage or children, or by how many people comprises the unit. This
   isn’t an argument against family structure, but a challenge to those
   who hope to run the country to expand their rhetoric, push the
   definition of traditional family structure as man, woman and child. We
   exist in community. We already act accordingly, and our leaders should
   speak that way, too.
<T=1-4.txt>
   Family - definition of family by The Free Dictionary
family
   Also found in: Thesaurus, Medical, Legal, Financial, Acronyms, Idioms,
   Encyclopedia, Wikipedia.
family
   n. pl. families
    A fundamental social group in society typically consisting of one or
   two parents and their children.
    The children of one of these groups: She raised a large family.
    A group of persons related by descent or marriage: My whole family,
   including my cousins, gets together once a year. See Usage Note at
   collective noun.
    People in the same line of descent; lineage: comes from an old
   Virginia family.
    Obsolete All the members of a household living under one roof.
    A locally independent organized crime unit, as of the Cosa Nostra.
    A group of like things; a class: the family of brass instruments.
    A group of individuals derived from a common stock: the family of
   human beings.
    Biology A taxonomic category of related organisms ranking below an
   order and above a genus. A family usually consists of several genera.
    Linguistics A group of languages descended from the same parent
   language, such as the Indo-European language family.
    Mathematics A set of functions or surfaces that can be generated by
   varying the parameters of a general equation.
    Chemistry
    A group of elements with similar chemical properties.
    A vertical column in the periodic table of elements.
    Physics Any of the three generations of elementary fermions.
   adj.
    Of or having to do with a family: family problems.
    Being suitable for a family: family movies.
   Idiom:
   in the family way
   Pregnant.
   [Middle English familie, from Latin familia, household, servants of a
   household, from famulus, servant.]
family
   n, pl -lies
    (Sociology)
    a primary social group consisting of parents and their offspring,
   the principal function of which is provision for its members
    (as modifier): family quarrels; a family unit.
    one's wife or husband and one's children
    one's children, as distinguished from one's husband or wife
    (Genetics) a group of persons related by blood; a group descended
   from a common ancestor. Compare extended family
    all the persons living together in one household
    any group of related things or beings, esp when scientifically
   categorized
    (Biology) biology any of the taxonomic groups into which an order is
   divided and which contains one or more genera. Felidae (cat family) and
   Canidae (dog family) are two families of the order Carnivora
    (Biology) ecology a group of organisms of the same species living
   together in a community
    (Linguistics) a group of historically related languages assumed to
   derive from one original language
    (Law) chiefly US an independent local group of the Mafia
    (Mathematics) maths a group of curves or surfaces whose equations
   differ from a given equation only in the values assigned to one or more
   constants in each curve: a family of concentric circles.
    (General Physics) physics the isotopes, collectively, that comprise
   a radioactive series
    in the family way informal pregnant
family
   n., pl. -lies,
   adj. n.
    parents and their children, considered as a group, whether dwelling
   together or not.
    the children of one person or one couple collectively.
    the spouse and children of one person.
    any group of persons closely related by blood, as parents, children,
   uncles, aunts, and cousins.
    all those persons considered as descendants of a common progenitor.
    a group of persons who form a household, esp. under one head.
    the staff, or body of assistants, of an official: the presidential
   family.
    a group of related things: the halogen family of elements.
    a group of people who are generally not blood relations but who
   share common attitudes, interests, or goals.
    Biol. the usual major subdivision of an order or suborder in the
   classification of plants, animals, fungi, etc., usu. consisting of
   several genera.
    Ling. the largest category into which languages related by common
   origin can be classified with certainty. Compare stock (def. 12),
   subfamily (def. 2).
    a local unit of the Mafia or Cosa Nostra.
   adj.
    of, pertaining to, or characteristic of a family: a family trait.
    belonging to or used by a family.
    suitable or appropriate for adults and children: a family amusement
   park.
    not containing obscene language: a family newspaper.
   Idioms:
   in a or the family way, pregnant.
family
   A group of organisms ranking above a genus and below an order. See
   Table at taxonomy.
family
   First referred to the servants of a household and then to both the
   servants and the descendants of a common ancestor. It comes from Latin
   familia, "household; household servants," which came from another Latin
   term, famulus, "servant." It was not until 1667 that the term was used
   specifically for parents and their children.
Family
    an assembly of objects with some common feature; a body of servants in
   a house; the members of a family. See also clan, set.
   Examples: family of curves, 1741; of gladiators; of languages, 1875; of
   legends; of myths; of servants, 1722; of thieves, 1749; of yews, 1731.
 Noun  family - a social unit living together family - a social unit
         living together; "he moved his family to Virginia"; "It was a good
         Christian household"; "I waited until the whole house was asleep"; "the
         teacher asked how many people made up his home"
         household, menage, home, house
         broken home - a family in which the parents have separated or divorced
         conjugal family, nuclear family - a family consisting of parents and
         their children and grandparents of a marital partner
         extended family - a family consisting of the nuclear family and their
         blood relatives
         foster family - the family of a fosterling
         foster home - a household in which an orphaned or delinquent child is
         placed (usually by a social-service agency)
         menage a trois - household for three; an arrangement where a married
         couple and a lover of one of them live together while sharing sexual
         relations
         social unit, unit - an organization regarded as part of a larger social
         group; "the coach said the offensive unit did a good job"; "after the
         battle the soldier had trouble rejoining his unit"
       family - primary social group family - primary social group; parents
         and children; "he wanted to have a good job before starting a family"
         family unit
         kin group, kindred, kinship group, clan, kin, tribe - group of people
         related by blood or marriage
         mates, couple, match - a pair of people who live together; "a married
         couple from Chicago"
         man and wife, married couple, marriage - two people who are married to
         each other; "his second marriage was happier than the first"; "a
         married couple without love"
         child, kid - a human offspring (son or daughter) of any age; "they had
         three children"; "they were able to send their kids to college"
         parent - a father or mother; one who begets or one who gives birth to
         or nurtures and raises a child; a relative who plays the role of
         guardian
         sib, sibling - a person's brother or sister
       family - a collection of things sharing a common attribute family -
         a collection of things sharing a common attribute; "there are two
         classes of detergents"
         category, class
         grammatical category, syntactic category - (grammar) a category of
         words having the same grammatical properties
         substitution class, paradigm - the class of all items that can be
         substituted into the same position (or slot) in a grammatical sentence
         (are in paradigmatic relation with one another)
         aggregation, collection, accumulation, assemblage - several things
         grouped together or considered as a whole
         brass family - (music) the family of brass instruments
         violin family - (music) the family of bowed stringed instruments
         woodwind family - (music) the family of woodwind instruments
         stamp - a type or class; "more men of his stamp are needed"
         sex - either of the two categories (male or female) into which most
         organisms are divided; "the war between the sexes"
         declension - a class of nouns or pronouns or adjectives in
         Indo-European languages having the same (or very similar) inflectional
         forms; "the first declension in Latin"
         conjugation - a class of verbs having the same inflectional forms
         denomination - a class of one kind of unit in a system of numbers or
         measures or weights or money; "he flashed a fistful of bills of large
         denominations"
         histocompatibility complex - a family of fifty or more genes on the
         sixth human chromosome that code for proteins on the surfaces of cells
         and that play a role in the immune response
         superphylum - (biology) a taxonomic group ranking between a phylum and
         below a class or subclass
       family - people descended from a common ancestor family - people
         descended from a common ancestor; "his family has lived in
         Massachusetts since the Mayflower"
         kinfolk, kinsfolk, phratry, family line, sept, folk
         people - members of a family line; "his people have been farmers for
         generations"; "are your people still alive?"
         homefolk - the people of your home locality (especially your own
         family); "he wrote his homefolk every day"
         house - aristocratic family line; "the House of York"
         dynasty - a sequence of powerful leaders in the same family
         gens, name - family based on male descent; "he had no sons and there
         was no one to carry on his name"
         blood line, bloodline, ancestry, lineage, pedigree, stemma, line of
         descent, parentage, blood, origin, descent, stock, line - the
         descendants of one individual; "his entire lineage has been warriors"
       family - a person having kinship with another or others family - a
         person having kinship with another or others; "he's kin"; "he's family"
         kin, kinsperson
         affine - (anthropology) kin by marriage
         relative, relation - a person related by blood or marriage; "police are
         searching for relatives of the deceased"; "he has distant relations
         back in New Jersey"
       family - (biology) a taxonomic group containing one or more genera;
         "sharks belong to the fish family"
         Bunyaviridae - a large family of arboviruses that affect a wide range
         of hosts (mainly vertebrates and arthropods)
         Filoviridae - a family of threadlike RNA viruses that cause diseases in
         humans and nonhuman primates (monkeys and chimpanzees)
         Togaviridae - a family of arboviruses carried by arthropods
         Flaviviridae - a family of arboviruses carried by arthropods
         Arenaviridae - a family of arborviruses carried by arthropods
         Rhabdoviridae - a family of arborviruses carried by arthropods
         Reoviridae - a family of arboviruses carried by arthropods
         bacteria family - a family of bacteria
         protoctist family - any of the families of Protoctista
         Endamoebidae, family Endamoebidae - a large family of endoparasitic
         amebas that invade the digestive tract
         fish family - any of various families of fish
         chordate family - any family in the phylum Chordata
         bird family - a family of warm-blooded egg-laying vertebrates
         characterized by feathers and forelimbs modified as wings
         amphibian family - any family of amphibians
         reptile family - a family of reptiles
         arthropod family - any of the arthropods
         mammal family - a family of mammals
         coelenterate family - a family of coelenterates
         ctenophore family - a family of ctenophores
         worm family - a family of worms
         mollusk family - a family of mollusks
         family Panorpidae, Panorpidae - a family of insects of the order
         Mecoptera
         Bittacidae, family Bittacidae - a family of predacious tropical insects
         of the order Mecoptera
         echinoderm family - a family of echinoderms
         biological science, biology - the science that studies living organisms
         taxon, taxonomic category, taxonomic group - animal or plant group
         having natural relations
         order - (biology) taxonomic group containing one or more families
         form family - (biology) an artificial taxonomic category for organisms
         of which the true relationships are obscure
         subfamily - (biology) a taxonomic category below a family
         tribe - (biology) a taxonomic category between a genus and a subfamily
         genus - (biology) taxonomic group containing one or more species
         moss family - a family of mosses
         liliopsid family, monocot family - family of flowering plants having a
         single cotyledon (embryonic leaf) in the seed
         dicot family, magnoliopsid family - family of flowering plants having
         two cotyledons (embryonic leaves) in the seed which usually appear at
         germination
         fungus family - includes lichen families
         plant family - a family of plants
         fern family - families of ferns and fern allies
       family - a loose affiliation of gangsters in charge of organized
         criminal activities family - a loose affiliation of gangsters in charge
         of organized criminal activities
         crime syndicate, syndicate, mob
         gangdom, gangland, organized crime - underworld organizations
         Cosa Nostra, Maffia, Mafia - a crime syndicate in the United States;
         organized in families; believed to have important relations to the
         Sicilian Mafia
       family - an association of people who share common beliefs or
         activities family - an association of people who share common beliefs
         or activities; "the message was addressed not just to employees but to
         every member of the company family"; "the church welcomed new members
         into its fellowship"
         fellowship
         association - a formal organization of people or groups of people; "he
         joined the Modern Language Association"
         koinonia - Christian fellowship or communion with God or with fellow
         Christians; said in particular of the early Christian community
family
   noun
    relations, people, children, issue, relatives, household, folk
   (informal), offspring, descendants, brood, kin, nuclear family,
   progeny, kindred, next of kin, kinsmen, ménage, kith and kin, your
   nearest and dearest, kinsfolk, your own flesh and blood His family are
   completely behind him, whatever he decides.
    children, kids (informal), offspring, little ones, munchkins
   (informal, chiefly U.S.), littlies (Austral. informal) Are you going to
   have a family?
    ancestors, forebears, parentage, forefathers, house, line, race,
   blood, birth, strain, tribe, sept, clan, descent, dynasty, pedigree,
   extraction, ancestry, lineage, genealogy, line of descent, stemma,
   stirps Her family came to Los Angeles at the turn of the century.
    species, group, class, system, order, kind, network, genre,
   classification, subdivision, subclass foods in the cabbage family, such
   as Brussels sprouts
   Related words
   adjective familial
   Quotations
   "You don't choose your family. They are God's gift to you, as you are
   to them" [Desmond Tutu address at enthronement as archbishop of Cape
   Town]
   "The family - that dear octopus from whose tentacles we never quite
   escape" [Dodie Smith Dear Octopus]
   "All happy families are alike, but every unhappy one is unhappy in its
   own way" [Leo Tolstoy Anna Karenina]
   Proverbs
   "Blood is thicker than water"
family
   noun
    A group of usually related people living together as a unit:
   house, household, ménage.
    A group of people sharing common ancestry:
   clan, house, kindred, lineage, stock, tribe.
   Idioms: flesh and blood, kith and kin.
    One's relatives collectively:
   kin, kindred, kinfolk.
    One's ancestors or their character or one's ancestral derivation:
   ancestry, birth, blood, bloodline, descent, extraction, genealogy,
   line, lineage, origin, parentage, pedigree, seed, stock.
   adjective
   Of or relating to the family or household:
   domestic, familial, home, homely, household.
<T=1-40.txt>
Video: Utah protest targets World Congress of Families’ definition of family
   By PAMELA MANSON | The Salt Lake Tribune connect
   First Published Oct 29 2015 09:45PM        Last Updated Apr 30 2016
   05:09 pm
   About 50 protesters braved the rain Thursday night to demonstrate
   against the ninth World Congress of Families and its definition of
   family.
   The demonstrators — who marched outside the Grand America Hotel, where
   the organization is meeting this week — carried signs that read "WFC
   Spreads Hate Not Truth," "Love Makes a Family" and "Don't Diss Adoptive
   Parents."
   The World Congress of Families promotes "the natural family" of a
   married mother and father and their children, and it says it works to
   strengthen all families.
   But critics say the organization hurts families and supports laws in
   other countries that criminalize homosexuality. Restore Our Humanity,
   which organized Thursday's demonstration, says it strongly opposes the
   WCF message of exclusion and divisiveness.
   And the Southern Poverty Law Center has declared the World Congress of
   Families to be a "hate group" for fostering homophobia under the guise
   of protecting families.
   WCF officials reject the hate-group allegation and say they are "not
   'anti' anything."
   Demonstrator Mary Vaughan said she is disappointed that some of Utah's
   leaders, including Gov. Gary Herbert, spoke at the conference.
   Mark Lawrence, director of Restore Our Humanity, which works to further
   human rights in Utah, also objected to the governor's appearance and
   said he is going to work against Herbert's re-election.
   Salt Lake County District Attorney Sim Gill, who spoke at the
   demonstration, questioned how anyone could support the World Congress
   of Families. He said the group incites the fear of persecution.
   "This is not about family," Gill said. "This is about tearing families
   apart."
<T=1-41.txt>
   Opinion  Family
Why Christians Need to Embrace a Changing Definition of Family
   Single friends: We “traditional” families need you.
   Laura Kenna, guest writer
   Why Christians Need to Embrace a Changing Definition of Family
   It’s a saying commonly heard in Washington, D.C., a place with changing
   political administrations, students and interns who come and go, and a
   workforce of upwardly mobile professionals.
   It seems like so many people here are either brand-new to the area or
   on their way out. A city report this year found that, according to tax
   rolls, fewer than 1 in 4 people who moved to the District a decade ago
   remained residents eight years later.
   In such a transient place, the church’s special role in creating a
   sense of home is tangible. Our relatives are far away. We may feel
   isolated, lonely, or overwhelmed. Through my church community, I
   quickly discovered an uncomfortable yet extraordinarily comforting
   fact: My husband and kids and distant relatives aren't enough. I must
   depend the friends I make, the people around me, as our “practical
   family.”
   When babies arrive, parents fly in for a visit, but they aren’t on hand
   to watch your ...
<T=1-42.txt>
New York's Highest Court Has Expanded the Definition of What it Means to Be a
Parent
Under New York law, parental rights have now become more inclusive
   kid (Micah Sittig via Flickr)
   By Danny Lewis
   August 31, 2016
   For decades, American culture has defined a family as a relatively
   simple nuclear unit of mother, father and children. However, in recent
   years the definition of family has shifted as society has become more
   open to other configurations, like single-parent households and parents
   who happen to be the same sex. Now, New York's highest court has
   expanded the definition of what it means to be a parent to include
   someone who is neither biologically related to the child nor an
   adoptive parent.
   Tuesday’s ruling by the New York State Court of Appeals stemmed from a
   case between a gay couple over custody for their child. The two women,
   in the case known only as Brooke S.B. and Elizabeth A. C.C., had been
   romantic partners for years and decided to raise a child together. In
   2008, Elizabeth became pregnant through artificial insemination, and
   while Brooke never formally adopted the boy, she still gave him her
   last name. Things got legally tricky a few years later, when the two
   women ended their relationship and Elizabeth tried to cut off Brooke's
   contact to the child, Alan Feuer reports for The New York Times. Brooke
   sued for custody, but was turned down by a lower court because of her
   lack of a traditional connection to the boy.
   “The court clearly heard us,” Eric Wrubel, a lawyer who represented the
   child in the case, tells Feuer. “They clearly see that the bright lines
   of biology and adoption just don’t fit today with marriage equality.
   They understand that couples and families these days are not just mom
   and dad, and husband and wife.”
   By expanding the definition of a parent in regards to their rights, the
   court has introduced a greater flexibility in how it handles
   complicated custody battles. For example, a parent who never formally
   adopted a spouse’s child from an earlier marriage could now argue for
   visitation and custody rights, G. Clay Whittaker reports for Popular
   Science. At the same time, a man who raised a child but later found
   that he isn’t the biological father won’t necessarily have to face
   long, complicated court battles in order to secure custody over the
   child.
   New York isn’t the first state to make moves toward expanding the
   definition of parenthood, as Feuer points out, citing examples like
   Oklahoma and South Carolina.
   “We’ve seen this all over the country, even in states that might be
   called gay unfriendly,” Nancy Polikoff, a professor at the American
   University Washington College of Law, tells Feuer. “Many courts have
   simply said that this person looks like a parent and you cannot just
   eliminate them from the child’s life. To have New York, where there are
   so many same-sex couples, be an outlier was a problem. But this catches
   New York up.”
   The ruling does raise new questions about the criteria that now defines
   parenthood in New York state, as the court did not explicitly write any
   out. While the court acknowledged that these questions will likely have
   to be addressed in the future, for now the ruling ensures that children
   can still see their parents, regardless of whether or not they are
   biologically related.
<T=1-43.txt>
   Culture
The Conservative Definition of 'Family Values' Is B.S.
   Two advocates launch an initiative to push back against nuclear family
   privilege.
   By Kali Holloway / AlterNet
   October 12, 2015
   The term “family values,” particularly when used in election years, is
   rarely about what really matters to children and families. Instead the
   phrase serves to indict those who don’t live in traditional nuclear
   American homes—despite the fact that the “Leave it to Beaver” family
   model, with a stay-at-home mom and working dad, is no longer an
   accurate representation of how families across the country look.
   In a recent piece for Salon, family advocates Mia Birdsong and Nicole
   Rodgers note that at “its peak in the late 1950s, 65 percent of
   children were living in this type of...family unit. Today, it’s just 22
   percent.” Fed up with all the negative representations of non-nuclear
   families they encountered, the two decided to launch a new initiative
   called Family Story to change the way we talk about what family
   means. “[I]t’s past time that we take back the conservative claim to
   family” the Family Story website states. The organization is focused on
   countering the idea that there is a single “right” kind of family.
   Conservatives constantly bemoan changes in the American family
   structure as proof of moral failing, and they have long vilified
   families with working mothers, single parents, LGBT parents, and
   non-parental caregivers. But these types of families defy conservative
   stereotypes and outdated stigmas. Family Story, which allows real
   families to tell their own stories via powerful videos and other media,
   will push back against these pathologizing narratives.
   “I hate that ‘family values’ has become a meaningless term often tossed
   around by social conservatives, while all around us there are families
   living truly important values of love, support and connectedness who
   are left out,” Rodgers says. “I decided it was time to burn the old
   paradigm down and build something authentic and meaningful in its
   ashes.”
   Family Story’s mission is ambitious yet necessary. The project “will
   develop new research, share aspirational narratives and highlight the
   innovative and compelling ideas, practices, and solutions that families
   and communities have developed. We will offer inspiring models for new
   American dreams. We will push back against harmful stereotypes and
   cultural stigma. We will separate social problems like poverty,
   violence, and poor school performance from family structure, and
   contest the myth that the nuclear family is the solution to these
   challenges.”
   Rodgers is the founder of Role Reboot, a popular website that takes an
   incisive look at issues around family, gender, culture and “life off
   script.” Before founding and becoming co-director of Family Story, she
   spent years researching data proving that traditional families are not
   the panacea conservatives claim. Rodgers included some of this data in
   an article titled “Marriage Is No Safeguard Against Poverty” which was
   featured in the Washington Post this March.
   Earlier this year, Mia Birdsong delivered an astonishing TED Talk that
   countered damaging, long-held ideas about poor people; it has since
   been viewed more than 700,000 times. Prio to becoming Family Story
   co-director, she served as vice president of the Family Independence
   Initiative, an anti-poverty nonprofit.
   “Family Story is not, and will never be, about bashing nuclear
   families,” Nicole Rodgers says. “Two married parents raising children
   can be a wonderful thing; it’s just not the best or only thing. This is
   about building a bigger tent and respecting the dignity and value of a
   wider range of family arrangements.”
   “It’s no surprise that conservatives have such limited, regressive
   views on what makes a ‘good’ family,” adds Birdsong. “But too few
   progressive advocates, policymakers and pundits are offering a
   counter-narrative. There are incredible, beautiful families who have
   figured out how to make it work outside the nuclear family model. It’s
   past time we lift up their stories.”
<T=1-44.txt>
Opposition leader Bill Shorten says Australia needs to change its ‘1950s’
definition of family, supports gay marriage in Australia
Australia’s Opposition leader Bill Shorten opposes public referendum on gay
marriage in Australia, says ‘people’s relationships don’t need opinion polls
from other people’
   Opposition leader Bill Shorten says Australia needs to change its
   ‘1950s’ definition of family, supports gay marriage in Australia
   Facebook/Bill Shorten
   Opposition leader Bill Shorten with his wife Chloe. He says becoming
   stepfather to her children changed his views on gay marriage
   3 July 2016
   by Laura Chubb
   Australia’s Opposition leader Bill Shorten has said it is time for the
   country to change its ‘1950s’ definition of family, adding that
   ‘people’s relationships don’t need opinion polls from other people’.
   Shorten strongly opposes the public referendum on marriage equality
   that has been promised by prime minister Malcolm Turnbull if he is
   re-elected. Whether this will go ahead is now in some doubt as the
   results of the election may produce a hung parliament.
   Shorten opened up about his own experiences as a stepfather on ABC show
   Kitchen Cabinet this week, saying: ‘This 1950s definition of what
   constitutes a family, I don’t think that describes not just gay couples
   with kids but I don’t think it describes blended families.’
Gay marriage in Australia: relationships don’t need opinion polls
   Shorten had been criticized for his anti-gay marriage referendum stance
   this week after it emerged he told an Australian Christian Lobby forum
   three years ago he was ‘completely relaxed’ about having such a
   referendum.
   But when quizzed by Kitchen Cabinet host Annabel Crabb, he said he’d
   had a change of heart after becoming stepfather to his wife’s two
   children from a previous relationship.
   Shorten is married to Chloe Bryce, with whom he had a child,
   Clementine, in 2009. He is also stepfather to Bryce’s son and daughter,
   Rupert and Georgette.
   ‘The experience of being a father, of being a stepfather, has opened my
   eyes that people’s relationships don’t need opinion polls from other
   people,’ he said.
   ‘One of the reasons why I support marriage equality is that
   same-sex-attracted couples who love each other and have kids, why
   should their kids somehow feel invalidated or that somehow their
   parents, their carers, that their relationships are any less valuable
   or wanted?’
‘Politicians should protect people from prejudice’
   Speaking about the role of politicians in society, Shorten said it was
   their job to ensure people can live their lives without fear of
   prejudice. The inference is that holding a referendum on same-sex
   marriage only opens the door to prejudicial views being aired in public
   and aimed at gay parent families.
   Shorten recently claimed he did not think Turnbull believed there
   should be a referendum either, and had only proposed it to placate
   conservative members of his party and shore up his position as prime
   minister.
   The move has been likened to UK prime minister David Cameron’s European
   Union (EU) ‘Brexit’ referendum, which he used as a bargaining chip to
   remain prime minister during last year’s UK general election.
   Cameron’s gamble backfired spectacularly when the UK voted to leave the
   EU last week, forcing his resignation. Cameron had campaigned to remain
   in the EU.
   The ‘leave’ campaign in the UK has been criticized for legitimizing
   racist attitudes because it had focused on immigration issues. It is
   feared that Australia’s gay marriage referendum could do the same for
   anti-gay views.
<T=1-45.txt>
   The definition of family and domestic violence will be broadened to
   include emotional, psychological and economic abuse under new laws in
   the ACT.
   The new legislation, introduced to the ACT Legislative Assembly on
   Tuesday, also aims to strengthen protections for victims of domestic,
   family and sexual violence, and improve access to legal responses by
   reforming the ACT's legal framework.
   The definition of family and domestic violence will be broadened to
   include emotional, psychological and economic abuse ... The definition
   of family and domestic violence will be broadened to include emotional,
   psychological and economic abuse under new laws in the ACT.
   Attorney-General Simon Corbell said responses to domestic and family
   violence have traditionally focused on physical forms of violence.
   "These important reforms emphasise non-physical forms of violence and
   emphasise that in the ACT, family violence is unacceptable in any
   form," he said.
   "While gender-based violence, including domestic violence, cannot be
   eliminated through law reform alone, legal measures are an essential
   component of any response to domestic and family violence."
   The new legislation also:
      amends the grounds for making a final protection order, and
       after-hours order, to improve access to the scheme.
      introduces provisions to prevent self-represented respondents from
       cross-examining applicants themselves.
      makes amendments to allow the complainant's pre-recorded evidence
       to be tendered as evidence-in-chief in all sexual assault matters.
      implements the scheme for national recognition of family violence
       orders as agreed by the Council of Australian Governments.
      introduces a preamble that speaks to the nature and features of
       family violence.
   Mr Corbell said the legal process could be an "emotional and difficult"
   time for victims of family, domestic or sexual violence, and the
   legislation would provide additional protections for them.
   "Implementation of these reforms ensures the ACT's justice response to
   family violence is in step with other jurisdictions and recognised best
   practice," he said.
   The reforms implement 22 recommendations made by the Australian and New
   South Wales Law Reform Commissions in their report Family Violence – a
   National Legal Response.
   The government's reforms align with the Second Implementation Plan for
   the ACT's Prevention Against Women and Children Strategy 2011-2017.
   The Legislative Assembly also passed new laws allowing the ACT Civil
   and Administrative Tribunal to hear civil dispute claims of up to
   $25,000 on Tuesday - increasing the current $10,000 maximum.
   Mr Corbell said the amendments would allow Canberrans to obtain an
   inexpensive remedy for low-level civil claims under $25,000, including
   everyday consumer disputes, such as motor vehicle transactions, minor
   home renovations, and landscaping contracts.
   The legislation also combines the functions of the ACAT's general
   president and appeal president into one role of president who will have
   to be a magistrate or eligible for appointment as a magistrate.
   "These changes ensure the ACAT is appropriately resourced and ready to
   undertake its functions for many years into the future for the benefit
   of the ACT community," Mr Corbell said
<T=1-46.txt>
   September 23, 2016
   As the Definition of ‘Family’ Evolves, Employers Increasingly Offer PTO
   for Adoption
   Employers are increasingly offering paid time off for adoptions,
   according to a new report from consulting group Mercer. The benefit is
   likely an attempt to meet the needs of a workforce in which the
   definition of “family” now includes same-sex parents, the firm said.
   For a Limited Time receive a FREE Compensation Market Analysis Report!
   Find out how much you should be paying to attract and retain the best
   applicants and employees, with customized information for your
   industry, location, and job. Get Your Report Now!
   While employees in the U.S. have access to 12 weeks’ unpaid leave for
   adoptions if they meet the Family and Medical Leave Act’s (FMLA)
   eligibility requirements, companies are beginning to provide more
   generous leave, Mercer said in its 2016 Global Parental Leave report.
   The report is based on findings from a study that surveyed companies
   around the globe. The survey revealed that in countries with generous
   mandated leave, such as those in Western Europe, employers merely rely
   on the applicable law. But in other countries, like the U.S., companies
   have “filled the void” with paid time off.
   Globally, 29% of employers said they provide adoption leave above
   relevant statutory requirements. Countries in the Americas rank higher
   at 33%. The practice is seen least often in Asia Pacific, with only 22%
   of employers offering more than statutory minimums.
The new ‘family’
   Providing leave for all parents is a way to accommodate increasingly
   varied families, Mercer said, noting that 87% of companies said they
   handle leave for same-sex couples in exactly the same way as they do
   for opposite-sex couples.
   “Adoption leave, like other leaves, helps employers accommodate more
   diverse family structures, which are now commonplace among their
   employee population,” said Ilya Bonic, senior partner and president of
   Mercer’s talent business, in a statement.
   And employers are taking these steps despite the lack of government
   mandates. While many countries require paid maternity leave, fewer
   require the same for fathers, same-sex couples, or adoptive parents.
   “Regardless, some companies, faced with the challenge to attract and
   retain key talent, have begun to offer paid or nonpaid time away in
   these less common—but growing—circumstances,” the report’s executive
   summary says.
   And using benefits like paid time off for adoption as a recruiting and
   retention tool may be working, Mercer said. In its 2015 employee
   survey, the firm found that 66% of workers said benefits make them feel
   appreciated by their company. Sixty-three percent said that benefits
   were one of the reasons they work for their current employer.
<T=1-47.txt>
License to Parent
2 Examples how America’s Definition of Family is Changing
   By Trace Embry
   July 10, 2016  8:00 pm
   The definition of family seems to be changing with our rapidly changing
   times.
 The Poly Family
   In our society, even the Christian kids are believing that two moms;
   two dads; or a “poly family” are as legitimate as the traditional
   family of one man and one woman.
   Terms like “family” and “marriage” are being grossly redefined in our
   post-modern world.
   A decade or so ago, gay marriage would have been thought of as an
   oxymoron—as were poly families.
   This is producing a slippery slope where “anything goes.”
   Please discuss with your children the importance of a proper view of
   family. Our future depends on it.
 Blended Families
   Large numbers of blended families are a result of high divorce rates.
   We continue to mess with and complicate God’s ecosystem. Family
   problems will thus continue to be more and more complicated.
   Scripture gives us many examples of blended family complexities. But,
   it also shows us God’s mercy and ability to extract beauty from ashes.
   A tip for a blended family’s success is for husbands and wives to make
   it clear to their kids that they are united. This means that if a
   step-parent lays down the law, the biological parent backs them up.
   This breeds love, security and respect.
   Trace Embry is the Founder and Director of Shepherds Hill Academy, a
   Christ-centered therapeutic residential program, as well as a private
   accredited boarding school for troubled teenagers. He is the Host of
   the "License to Parent with Trace Embry Radio Program." He is also a
   public speaker, and teaches parenting classes. 
<T=1-48.txt>
Tinkering with the definition of “family” leads to family court disasters
posted at 12:41 pm on March 11, 2016 by Jazz Shaw
   I’ve been going back to this story a few times this week and it
   continues to disturb me. Yahoo News has a report of two families and
   one innocent child who have been essentially ripped apart through
   experiments in modern reproductive medicine and a court system which
   seems to be intractably stuck in the past and unable to deal with the
   complexities introduced to the definition of the family by modern
   technology. The entire, heartbreaking tale is too long to excerpt
   anything meaningful, so allow me to briefly summarize.
   The pseudonymous couple “Barbara and David” were having trouble
   conceiving and enlisted the assistance of another married woman,
   “Jamie.” After many interviews and negotiations, Jamie signed a
   contract in which she agreed to act as a surrogate mother to a child
   conceived in vitro using her own egg and David’s sperm. In return she
   was paid a significant fee and had all of her ongoing medical costs
   covered. Long story short; most of what Jamie told Barbara and David
   about her life turned out to be fictional and when the child, Kaylee
   Grace, was born, Jamie bailed out on the agreement and kept the child
   for herself.
   This led to a court battle which has run on for seven years and
   produced a not only emotional, but financial disaster for Barbara and
   David.
     The courts originally divided custody between the two parties, but
     in September 2014, despite a court ordered therapist’s
     recommendation for Kaylee Grace to live with Barbara and David, they
     lost shared physical custody when Kaylee started kindergarten in
     Jamie’s school district.
     Barbara and David now have to pay $459 in child support (David
     shares legal custody with Jamie) and are only allowed to spend two
     weekends a month with their daughter. But despite that court ruling,
     they say they haven’t see their daughter since October 2015.
   At this point it sounds as if Barbara and David are simply out of
   options and stuck in an indefensible situation for the next decade or
   more. Family Court in this country is simply not equipped to deal with
   this situation and millions more like it. The couple was told during
   the pursuit of their case that that they “can’t make a contract on a
   human life” and the judge admitted that she didn’t know what to do with
   such a document. In other words, even with a good team of lawyers,
   these agreements all too often are completely unenforceable.
   We’re not just talking about cases of surrogate mothers here either.
   We’ve seen multiple instances of men who agree to be sperm donors,
   either as a favor to another family or completely anonymously through a
   sperm bank, held up at virtual gunpoint to pay decades of child support
   for offspring they never agreed to raise or support. Same sex couples
   who seek such remedies to start a family constantly see one parent left
   with no rights concerning the child after a break-up, while sometimes
   still having to pay support as well.
   What’s the solution to all of this? If the courts can’t adapt to this
   new playing field I certainly understand if men decide to simply never
   get involved in such biological donations to help out infertile
   families. Even on the question of surrogacy, why take the risk of
   getting involved if it may end up in heartbreak and financially
   crippling judgements in court? Perhaps a more old school, conservative
   view would be to say that we’re tinkering with the definition of
   “family” far too much and we’ve opened up Pandora’s Box, bringing all
   this upon ourselves.
   If there’s a government based solution to this quandary I don’t know
   what it is. And given the government’s track record for handling such
   things I wouldn’t put much stock in whatever they come up with anyway.
   But that doesn’t change the fact that a great deal of wrong is being
   done as a consequence of someone trying to do something right. (Or, in
   the case of David, Barbara and Jamie, someone looking to profit off the
   misery of others.) We either need to reform the family court system or
   do a better job of warning people against getting involved in this type
   of family roulette in the first place.
<T=1-49.txt>
   The IRS has issued final regulations clarifying the definitions of
   “spouse,” “husband,” “wife,” and “husband and wife” for federal tax
   purposes. The final regulations now define “spouse,” “husband” and
   “wife” as any individual lawfully married to another individual, and
   “husband and wife” as any two individuals lawfully married to each
   other, regardless of the individuals’ sex.
   The clarification was needed after the Supreme Court ruled in
   Obergefell v. Hodges in 2015 that state bans on same-sex marriage
   violated the Equal Protection guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment.
   Obergefell struck down same-sex marriage bans as unconstitutional in
   four states (Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky and Tennessee), resolving a
   circuit split on the issue. (As previously discussed here, the
   Obergefell decision was anticipated after the Court ruled in U.S. v.
   Windsor that the authority to define marriage lay with the states, but
   declined to rule on the constitutionality of same-sex marriage.)
   Following Obergefell, the IRS issued proposed regulations redefining
   “spouse” for federal tax purposes. The proposed regulations also
   provided that a recognized marriage for federal tax purposes was a
   marriage recognized by any U.S. state, possession or territory.
   However, commentators pointed out that such a definition was too broad.
   For example, the proposed regulations’ definition of marriage could
   have caused taxpayers living in common-law marriages not recognized by
   their state to nonetheless be treated as married if any other U.S.
   state or territory would recognize their marriage. As a result, the
   final regulations provide that a marriage is recognized for federal tax
   purposes if the marriage is recognized in the U.S. state, possession or
   territory where the marriage is entered into – also known as the “state
   of celebration” rule. The final regulations do not recognize as a
   marriage for federal tax purposes alternative legal relationships such
   as registered domestic partnerships or civil unions. The final
   regulations also contain rules on recognition of foreign marriages. 
   These regulations should offer clarity to same-sex partners for estate
   and tax planning matters.
   <T=1-5.txt>
Definition of Family
   By Melissa Mayntz
   Family Family can be defined in many different ways.
   Family may seem like a simple concept, but there is no simple
   definition of family. In its most basic terms, a family is a group of
   individuals who share a legal or genetic bond, but for many people,
   family means much more, and even the simple idea of genetic bonds can
   be more complicated than it seems.
Basic Family Definition
   In the most basic definition, a group of people who share a legal bond
   or a blood bond is a family.
      Legal Bonds: Families are legally bound through marriages,
       adoptions, and guardianships, including the rights, duties, and
       obligations of those legal contracts. Legal bonds can be changed,
       expanded, or dissolved to change the composition of a family.
      Blood Bonds: Individuals who are directly related through a common
       ancestor are part of a family. This includes both close and distant
       relatives such as siblings, parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles,
       nieces, nephews, and cousins. Researching a family tree or
       genealogical records can reveal familial blood bonds.
   Despite the apparent simplicity of this definition of family, the idea
   of family goes far beyond just legal or blood relationships for many
   people.
Types of Families
   There are many different types of families, each of which is equally
   viable as a supportive, caring unit.
      Nuclear Family: Also called a conjugal family, this is the parents
       and their children living in the same residence or sharing the
       closest bonds.
      Extended Family: This type of family includes all relatives in
       close proximity, such as grandparents, aunts, uncles, and cousins.
       In a family household that is extended, these relatives typically
       live together and all share daily household duties. This type of
       family is also called a joint family or multigenerational family
       depending on which members are included.
      Complex Family: This type of extended family has three or more
       adults plus their children. This type of family may be formed
       through divorce and remarriage, or it may be formed through
       polygamy in societies where that practice is acceptable. Some
       families may be complex even without formal legal bonds between the
       adults.
      Step Family: This is a family where the adults have divorced and
       remarried, bringing children from other unions together to form a
       new nuclear family. The children may come from several different
       parents or be on one or both sides of the new union.
      Traditional Family: This is a family unit defined in the classic
       sense as the father working outside the home to support the members
       financially, while the mother remains at home and tends to domestic
       duties and child-rearing. This strict definition of family is less
       and less common in modern society.
      Adopted Family: This type of family shares legal bonds but not
       genetic ones. Two parents may adopt a child to whom they share no
       blood relationship, or one parent may adopt the child of the other
       parent. Adopted families can also be defined in an emotional or
       spiritual sense where no formal legal bonds are present.
      Foster Family: A foster family includes one or more adult parent
       who serves as a temporary guardian for one or more children to whom
       they may or may not be biologically related. In time, more formal
       arrangements may be made and foster children can be legally
       adopted.
   Many families can be classified as more than one specific type, and
   every family has its unique characteristics that make it special and
   comforting to its members.
Defining Your Family
   While the direct legal and genetic relationships you share with others
   can help you create your definition of family, there is more to family
   relationships than these basic concepts. A true family provides its
   members with emotional and spiritual kinship through:
      Shared values, beliefs, and traditions
      Common experiences and activities
      Unconditional, non-judgmental support
   In many ways, different individuals relate to groups of people who
   provide them with emotional and spiritual connection as family, even if
   they share no legal or genetic bonds. For example, a church "family"
   has spiritual connections and shared values, even though its members
   are not formally related. Similarly, a work family has common
   experiences and share activities in long-term relationships without
   formal bonds. College fraternities and sororities often share familial
   bonds through experiences and consider one another brothers and sisters
   without formal relationships. With social networking technology, many
   people are even creating online or virtual families of individuals who
   share their beliefs, hobbies, and values even if they have never met in
   person.
   The definition of family is constantly evolving, and every person can
   define family in a different way to encompass the relationships she
   shares with people in her life. Over time one's family will change as
   one's life changes and the importance of family values and rituals
   deepen. Every member who is truly family will help make it richer.
<T=1-50.txt>
Toyota's new 'cuddly' robot could expand the definition of family
The Kirobo Mini can recognize expressions and make conversation.
   Jenn Savedge
   October 4, 2016, 12:03 p.m.
   Kirobo Mini
   Equipped with artificial intelligence and a built-in camera, the Kirobo
   Mini can recognize facial expressions and respond to conversations.
   The folks at Toyota recently released a new robot, but before you turn
   away, know this: this robot isn't like others you've seen. The Japanese
   automaker's new robot aims to fill a different void — providing
   companionship and connection to those who need it.
   The Kirobo Mini (kirobo is a combination of the Japanese words for hope
   and robot) is a doe-eyed robot that can fit in the palm of your hand.
   The little robot includes a camera, microphone and Bluetooth
   connection, and it uses these features to recognize facial expressions
   and participate in unscripted conversations. 
   In Japan, where birth rates are plummeting and the population is aging,
   Toyota is hoping the Kirobo Mini will make a connection with anyone who
   is feeling lonely.
   "He wobbles a bit, and this is meant to emulate a seated baby, which
   hasn't fully developed the skills to balance itself," said Fuminori
   Kataoka, Kirobo Mini's chief design engineer. "This vulnerability is
   meant to invoke an emotional connection."
   Kirobo Mini also emulates a child by blinking its large eyes and
   speaking in a high-pitched, baby-like voice. It even comes with a
   "cradle" that looks like a baby bunting and doubles as a car seat by
   fitting into cup holders.
   Kirobo Mini with cradle The Kirobo Mini's 'cradle' doubles as a baby
   seat in the car. 
   The Kirobo Mini will go on sale at Toyota dealerships in Japan next
   year for 39,800 yen (about $392 in U.S. dollars). Its designers see the
   robot as a bridge toward helping people become more accustomed to
   accepting robots in their daily lives.
   Japan's aging workforce and reluctance to allow immigrant employees add
   up to a diminished number of available workers to fill job vacancies.
   Last year, Japan opened its first robot-staffed hotel and plans are
   underway to integrate robots into stores and banks across the country.
   It's even likely that robots like the Kirobo Mini will connect (some
   day) with self-driving car technology.
   But for now, the Kirobo Mini has but one task — to chat, cuddle and
   provide companionship — just like any other member of the family.
<T=1-51.txt>
Family violence a bigger health risk for women than smoking, drinking,
obesity: study
   The Conversation
   By Kim Webster, Swinburne University of Technology
   Posted November 01, 2016 11:53:30
   A man's fist in the foreground with cowering woman out of focus. Photo:
   It is estimated one in three women have experienced violence or abuse
   by an intimate partner. (ABC News Breakfast)
   Related Story: #WhenIWas: Thousands of women share chilling stories of
   sexual harassment
   Related Story: Australian families suffering 'silent war' of domestic
   violence says advocate
   Related Story: Does CCTV footage help or hinder the reduction of
   violence against women?
   Map: Australia
   Barely a week passes without a media report of the suffering or tragic
   death of a woman at the hands of a partner.
   Typically, these accounts focus on the individuals involved. While
   important, in isolation, such a focus can belie the fact intimate
   partner violence is a wider social problem, obscuring both the factors
   contributing to it and opportunities to prevent it.
   A study being launched today by Australia's National Research
   Organisation for Women's Safety confirms the serious impacts of
   intimate partner violence. The analysis, undertaken by the Australian
   Institute of Health and Welfare, provides estimates of the impact of
   intimate partner violence on women's health.
   Data from the Personal Safety Survey, Australia's most reliable
   violence prevalence survey, was used as a key input.
   Since the age of 15, one in four women in Australia have experienced at
   least one incident of violence by a partner. This includes violence
   perpetrated by a live-in partner as well as boyfriends, girlfriends or
   dates. This is based on a definition of violence, used by the Personal
   Safety Survey, which includes physical and sexual assault, as well as
   face-to-face threats the victim believed were likely and able to be
   carried out.
   When emotional abuse by a live-in partner is included, (defined as
   controlling behaviours aimed at causing fear or emotional harm), it is
   estimated one in three women have experienced violence or abuse by an
   intimate partner.
Serious impacts on women's health
   Drawing on Australian and international studies, the Australian
   Institute of Health and Welfare found an association between women
   experiencing partner violence and a wide range of health impacts.
   Particularly compelling evidence was found linking partner violence to:
      anxiety
      depression
      suicide and self-inflicted injuries
      alcohol use disorders
      homicide and violence
      early pregnancy loss.
   These factors were used in calculating the burden of disease of partner
   violence.
   The burden of disease is a calculation of the impact of particular
   diseases and risk factors on an entire population. It is a measure of
   both fatal and non-fatal health impacts, which take into account the
   severity and duration of health conditions.
   The study found partner violence was among the top ten risk factors
   contributing to disease burden among all adult women, regardless of
   whether partner violence was defined broadly (violence by both live-in
   and non-live-in partners, and emotional abuse by live-in partners) or
   narrowly (only physical and sexual violence in live-in relationships).
   Among women 18 to 44 years, it was the biggest single risk factor when
   violence in all intimate relationships was included, bigger than
   smoking, alcohol use or being overweight or obese. When considering
   only violence by live-in partners, in this age group, partner violence
   ranked second only to alcohol use.
   The study found there had been no change in the burden since 2003.
Burden even larger for Indigenous women
   Physical and sexual partner violence is the leading risk factor
   contributing to disease burden in Indigenous women aged 18 to 44 years.
   The rates of burden of physical and sexual violence in both cohabiting
   and non-cohabiting relationships were compared between Indigenous and
   non-Indigenous women. Rates for Indigenous women were:
      6.3 times greater among women 18-44 years; and
      5.3 times greater among women of all ages.
   This burden was the leading contributor to the gap in burden between
   Indigenous and non-Indigenous women aged 18 to 44; and the sixth
   largest contributor to the gap among women of all ages.
A preventable burden
   Front-line services, such as the police, women's refuges and
   counselling and support services play a vital role, reducing exposure
   to violence and its health consequences by helping women to secure
   safety, supporting their recovery, and holding men who use violence
   accountable. Recent inquiries in Victoria and Queensland show that
   although such services have improved, much more needs to be done.
   Another effective way to reduce the burden is to prevent "new cases" of
   partner violence, by tackling its underlying causes. These are
   increasingly well understood, along with the means to address them.
   Among these factors is inequality between men and women, an influence
   made particularly potent when coupled with poverty, social exclusion
   and other forms of discrimination.
   A sustained, coordinated approach is needed which extends beyond
   affected individuals, and engages a wide range of sectors – not just
   front-line services - to shift social, community and organisational
   norms, practices and policies known to increase the likelihood of
   violence. A similar approach, often referred to as a public health
   approach, has been used very successfully in Australia to tackle other
   prevalent risk factors such as tobacco use and road safety hazards.
   Kim Webster, PhD candidate, University of Melbourne and Zuleyka
   Zevallos, Adjunct Research Fellow, Sociology, Swinburne University of
   Technology
   Originally published in The Conversation.
   Topics: domestic-violence, womens-health, australia
Family and domestic violence support services:
      1800 Respect national helpline:
       1800 737 732
      Women's Crisis Line:
       1800 811 811
      Men's Referral Service:
       1300 766 491
      Lifeline (24 hour crisis line):
       131 114
      Relationships Australia:
       1300 364 277
Domestic violence
     These women all died in 2015: 'they are not just statistics'
     ABC Open: People tell their domestic violence stories
     Australian police deal with a domestic violence matter every two
       minutes
     'It's the majority of your shift': How police handle domestic
       violence
     What's it like working on the front lines of the fight against
       domestic violence?
     Domestic violence: How do courts decide who needs protection?
     The device that's helping curb domestic violence
     Former abusive husband calls on men to 'take responsibility'
     Drum: Here's an idea - just stop punching women!
    Domestic violence and the media: maintaining the veil of silence
       and secrecy
    Loss of support services causing alarm
    Abusive partners could be listed on proposed domestic violence
       register
    Caught in a cycle of violence
    Intimate brutality: the epidemic of domestic violence
<T=1-52.txt>
Family Leave Needs To Be Bigger, Broader, And Gayer
   I remember my mornings before kindergarten class and how much I enjoyed
   the time being at home and relaxing. My mother would make me a quick
   lunch, which I ate while watching The Puzzle Place on PBS, before she
   would drive me to school.
   My mother chose to stay home with me and my older sister to raise us
   while my dad worked full-time until we were both in elementary school.
   She then returned to work part-time at a senior citizens’ home and then
   eventually got a job working in our school’s cafeteria.
   But that was a long time ago when a family could live off of one
   salary, when childcare wouldn’t cost you your first born, when POGS and
   crimped hair were cool.
   It was also when gay families and the LGBT community in general were
   beginning to fight their way out of the margins of society into which
   they were shoved.
   But the times are changing. And family leave needs to catch up.
   I took for granted the experience I had with my mother staying home and
   waiting a few years to return to work. I never really had to think
   twice about it, and I never even thanked her for it. (I am thanking you
   now, Mom!)
   But as I get older, I see my friends and family members having children
   and being forced to drain their resources to afford childcare. It’s
   forcing me to wake up to the hardships that so many people face and the
   sacrifices so many must make as a result of an inadequate system.
   And as a gay person, I can’t help but think about the possibility of
   one day needing or wanting to provide care for one of my precious
   chosen family members.
   The Family Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) was signed to “help working
   parents and other caregivers balance work and family.” Of course, its
   definition of “family” is very narrow, and although last summer’s
   Supreme Court decision ruling in favor of marriage equality solidified
   the right of workers to take leave (unpaid, of course) in order to care
   for a same-sex spouse, there are still many folks left out of the FMLA.
   What’s great about generations like mine is that we are helping lead
   the way towards the acceptance of broader definitions of identity
   across the board. Young LGBT people like me are also redefining what it
   means to be “family.” Many of us have been rejected by our biological
   parents and have had to seek comfort and care elsewhere. And in many
   cases, these chosen family members love us more than our blood
   relatives ever could.
   We find mothers in older lesbians in the community, we find brothers in
   fellow gay men in the community, we find sisters and fathers and so
   much more.
   Yet if my friend, who I define as family, falls ill and has no one else
   in their life to help them, I am vulnerable at work if I choose to
   leave for a while in order to provide care. If someone I know is
   transgender and needs help recuperating after gender reassignment
   surgery, my job is legally not protected if I choose to take care of my
   beloved friend who has no blood relatives to step up.
   And the issue of expanding the definition of “family” isn’t just a gay
   issue.
   If my niece is in an accident, God forbid, and my sister and
   brother-in-law are desperate for an extra hand to help with her
   recovery, I am not permitted to do so without my job being at risk or
   my finances being in jeopardy.
   Domestic partners, yes even straight ones, are also not covered
   federally under the FMLA. To couples who choose not to pursue what
   society views as traditional “marriage,” this deals a major blow. I
   cannot imagine the helplessness I would feel if my ill partner or
   friend or aunt was forced to go without care, or was subjected to
   sub-par care, because the law doesn’t value our relationship as much as
   the conventional “spouse-spouse” or “parent-child.”
   The FMLA was a start. But it sure as hell isn’t a cure-all. It’s barely
   a band-aid.
   So what do we need to do?
   We need to recognize that marriage equality was only the beginning.
   Those of us who are fighting to change perceptions of the LGBT
   community need to use that passion to take up this fight for improved
   family and medical leave. It affects us, it affects our loved ones, and
   it affects the advancement of our society as a whole.
   We must continue challenging our policy makers to step up and catch up
   to the 21st century. This country is made up of so many diverse,
   beautiful, hard-working people, and every single one of them deserves
   to be treated with dignity.
   We need to force legislators and employers to look at things
   differently and with a wider lens. We need to consider allowing
   employees to work remotely from home, allowing them to make schedules
   that work for them, and allowing people to take leave to care for the
   person they love, regardless of the type of tie that bonds them.
   We need to collectively organize and vote for progressive candidates
   who will work to expand the legal definitions of family within the FMLA
   for everyone and advocate for paid, not unpaid, leave.
   We need to push the government and businesses to value the time and the
   lives and the families of every worker, whether they are the CEO of a
   Fortune 500 company or a fast-food worker who sweats bullets in a hot
   kitchen all day. Family leave shouldn’t just be for white-collar
   workers. Every single worker who grinds day in and day out to put food
   on their table deserves paid family and medical leave.
   These are vows we must make to each other ― for richer or for poorer,
   in sickness and in health.
   And, most importantly, in love.
<T=1-53.txt>
New York State Expands Definition of Parent
   Child with rainbow flag
   If you've helped raise a child, you can seek custody and visitation
   rights even if you aren't related by law or biology, the state's
   highest court rules.
   By Trudy Ring
   September 01 2016 5:58 PM EDT
   New York State may pride itself on being in the forefront of progress
   on many social issues — it was an early adopter of marriage equality,
   for instance — but it’s just now catching up to most other states in
   expanding the definition of parenthood.
   The New York State Court of Appeals, the state’s highest court, ruled
   Tuesday that “a caretaker who is not related to, or the adoptive
   guardian of, a child could still be permitted to ask for custody and
   visitation rights,” The New York Times reports.
   The ruling, which involved a same-sex couple, is important to all types
   of families and brings New York in line with most of the states in the
   nation, including some very conservative ones, which allow these “de
   facto parents,” as the Times puts it, to seek custody and visitation
   rights.
   The judges ruled in a dispute between women identified in court papers
   only as Brooke S.B. and Elizabeth A. C.C. They entered into a
   relationship in 2006 but did not marry, as New York did not allow
   same-sex marriages at the time, and they could not afford to travel to
   a state that did. Elizabeth became pregnant through alternative
   insemination in 2008 and gave birth to a son the following year.
   “Though Brooke had no legal or biological ties to the child, a boy, she
   maintained a close relationship with him for years, cutting his
   umbilical cord at birth, giving him her last name and raising him
   jointly with Elizabeth,” the Times reports. The couple split up in
   2010, but Brooke continued to be a parent to him, according to Lambda
   Legal, which was part of her legal team in the case. In 2013, Elizabeth
   cut Brooke off from contact with the boy, leading Brooke to sue for
   custody and visitation.
   A family court dismissed her case, and an appellate court agreed, both
   saying they had to follow the precedent set by a 1991 Court of Appeals
   ruling in a case known as Alison D., which held that “nonbiological,
   nonmarried, nonadoptive parents are legal strangers to the children
   they raised with a same-sex partner,” Susan Sommer, Lambda Legal’s
   national director of constitutional litigation, explained in a press
   release.
   But in ruling on the new case, the Court of Appeals recognized that the
   understandings of marriage and family have evolved since 1991. “The
   definition of ‘parent’ established by this court 25 years ago in Alison
   D. has become unworkable when applied to increasingly varied familial
   relationships,” Judge Sheila Abdus-Salaam wrote for the court majority.
   She further noted, “Alison D.’s foundational premise of heterosexual
   parenting and nonrecognition of same-sex couples is unsustainable,”
   especially in light of the marriage equality law New York State passed
   in 2011 and the U.S. Supreme Court ruling last year that brought equal
   marriage rights to all 50 states.
   “Where a partner shows by clear and convincing evidence that the
   parties agreed to conceive a child and to raise the child together, the
   nonbiological, nonadoptive partner has standing to seek visitation and
   custody,” Abdus-Salaam added.
   “We are extremely gratified that Brooke will finally have her day in
   court to establish that she is the parent of the son she cherishes,”
   Sommer said. We are eager for them to be reunited as soon as possible.”
   The ruling also applies in a similar case, Estrellita A. v. Jennifer
   L.D., which involved similar issues, Lambda Legal notes. In this case a
   lesbian nonbiological parent who was ordered to pay child support
   argued that she should be able to petition for custody and visitation
   rights.
   The decision puts New York on the same page as many other states, even
   conservative ones like Oklahoma and South Carolina, the Times notes.
   “Many courts have simply said that this person looks like a parent and
   you cannot just eliminate them from the child’s life,” Nancy D.
   Polikoff, a professor at the American University Washington College of
   Law, told the paper. “To have New York, where there are so many
   same-sex couples, be an outlier was a problem. But this catches New
   York up.”
<T=1-54.txt>
The Changing American Family – from New York Times
   By Amy on November 26, 2013 in Family, In The News, Other Research,
   Research
   The New York Times just published a special section of their Science
   Times entitled The Changing American Family. And in the category of
   disappointing but not surprising, nary a partnered childfree family is
   to be found.
   Author Natalie Angier notes that the American family “has become as
   multilayered and full of surprises as a holiday turducken” yet
   apparently those many layers do not include partnered families without
   children. While the article does note the increase in single “families
   of one” and families that include “good friends” who are part of the
   “’’voluntary kin’ movement,” couples without kids appear to be the only
   category that don’t seem to count enough as “families” that they
   warrant inclusion in the 28-page piece.
   At one point, the article does mention that our nation’s birthrate is
   at an all-time low but, oddly, it doesn’t consider how adults with
   partners but without kids form family. It also only mentions families
   of one in passing; none of the families featured in the piece are
   childfree nor are any of them childless.
   Thus while the article charts the demographic changes in the family
   landscape across the U.S. quite thoroughly, the families interviewed
   for the piece do not represent the diverse trends described.
The Changing American Family
   American households have never been more diverse, more surprising, more
   baffling. In this special issue of Science Times, NATALIE ANGIER takes
   stock of our changing definition of family.
   The Schulte-Wayser family is both modern and traditional at the same
   time.David Walter Banks for The New York Times.
   By NATALIE ANGIER                               NOVEMBER 25, 2013
   CHELSEA, MICH. — Kristi and Michael Burns have a lot in common. They
   love crossword puzzles, football, going to museums and reading five or
   six books at a time. They describe themselves as mild-mannered
   introverts who suffer from an array of chronic medical problems. The
   two share similar marital résumés, too. On their wedding day in 2011,
   the groom was 43 years old and the bride 39, yet it was marriage No. 3
   for both.
   Today, their blended family is a sprawling, sometimes uneasy ensemble
   of two sharp-eyed sons from her two previous husbands, a daughter and
   son from his second marriage, ex-spouses of varying degrees of
   involvement, the partners of ex-spouses, the bemused in-laws and a
   kitten named Agnes that likes to sleep on computer keyboards.
   Today, their blended family is a sprawling, sometimes uneasy ensemble
   of two sharp-eyed sons from her two previous husbands, a daughter and
   son from his second marriage, ex-spouses of varying degrees of
   involvement, the partners of ex-spouses, the bemused in-laws and a
   kitten named Agnes that likes to sleep on computer keyboards.
   If the Burnses seem atypical as an American nuclear family, how about
   the Schulte-Waysers, a merry band of two married dads, six kids and two
   dogs? Or the Indrakrishnans, a successful immigrant couple in Atlanta
   whose teenage daughter divides her time between prosaic homework and
   the precision footwork of ancient Hindu dance; the Glusacs of Los
   Angeles, with their two nearly grown children and their litany of
   middle-class challenges that seem like minor sagas; Ana Perez and
   Julian Hill of Harlem, unmarried and just getting by, but with Warren
   Buffett-size dreams for their three young children; and the alarming
   number of families with incarcerated parents, a sorry byproduct of
   America’s status as the world’s leading jailer.
   The typical American family, if it ever lived anywhere but on Norman
   Rockwell’s Thanksgiving canvas, has become as multilayered and full of
   surprises as a holiday turducken — the all-American seasonal
   portmanteau of deboned turkey, duck and chicken.
   Researchers who study the structure and evolution of the American
   family express unsullied astonishment at how rapidly the family has
   changed in recent years, the transformations often exceeding or
   capsizing those same experts’ predictions of just a few journal
   articles ago.
<T=1-6.txt>
Meaning of Family
   Michelle Blessing
   By Michelle Blessing Mental Health Professional
   family
   'Family' is a single word, with many different meanings. People have
   many ways of defining a family and what being a part of a family means
   to them. Families differ in terms of economic, cultural, social, and
   many other facets, but what every family has in common is that the
   people who call it a family are making clear that those people are
   important in some way to the person calling them his family.
Definition of Family
   The dictionary defines family in several ways. One definition is "a
   fundamental social group in society typically consisting of one or two
   parents and their children." While this definition is a good starting
   point, there are several modern family structures that are excluded by
   this definition, such as childless couples or other variations on the
   family unit. Another definition is "Two or more people who share goals
   and values, have long-term commitments to one another and reside
   usually in the same dwelling." This definition encompasses the vast
   majority of modern family units; for the purposes of this article, the
   second definition will be used.
Who Makes a Family?
   The traditional family consists of a father, mother and children. This
   is the family shown on television as the standard family. However, the
   21st century showcases a variety of family units, some very different
   from the standard of the 1950s. Today, children are also often raised
   in single parent homes, by grandparents or by homosexual parents. Some
   families opt to have no children, or cannot have children due to some
   medical or emotional barrier. The idea that parents and children make a
   family is a basic definition; however, in order to accurately
   acknowledge other family structures, a broader definition is necessary.
   In addition to a more universal family definition, there are also
   plenty of people who consider a group of friends to be family, and
   adults who consider pets as defining members of the family unit.
Friends as Family
   Many people consider friends to be as close or even closer than
   extended (or immediate) family. People who have lost close family
   members may create a family unit of friends with similar interests and
   goals to become replacements or enhancements to a lacking family
   structure. This type of family unit, while untraditional, can be just
   as close, if not closer, than a traditional structure. Friends are
   chosen by an individual; at times, these people may be more special or
   important than the family a person was born with. In addition, some
   people who have supportive families also have an extensive network of
   friends who they consider to be a second family or as additions to
   their blood or legal relatives.
Pets as Family
   Pets can also become members of a family unit. Pets add an element of
   responsibility to a family, particularly for children. For couples who
   cannot, or choose not to, have children, pets can be a replacement and
   be loved as dearly as children. Pets, such as dogs and cats, are cared
   for as additional family members by many people and are mourned as such
   as well when they pass away.
Redefining Family
   Rather than simply defining family by a dictionary definition, each
   individual should look to define a family by his own standards,
   enriching the dictionary's definition. You can have several families in
   your lifetime, even several families at once if you choose. Regardless
   of how you choose to define your family unit, whether it is traditional
   or unique, your definition is of the family unit that works for you. As
   the saying goes, "Family is what you make it." Whether made of blood
   relatives, friends, or pets, or a combination of these, your family can
   offer you the support you need to thrive.
<T=1-7.txt>
family
   noun, plural families.
     a basic social unit consisting of parents and their children,
       considered as a group, whether dwelling together or not:
       the traditional family.
     a social unit consisting of one or more adults together with the
       children they care for:
       a single-parent family.
   the children of one person or one couple collectively:
   We want a large family.
   the spouse and children of one person:
   We're taking the family on vacation next week.
   any group of persons closely related by blood, as parents, children,
   uncles, aunts, and cousins:
   to marry into a socially prominent family.
   all those persons considered as descendants of a common progenitor.
   Chiefly British. approved lineage, especially noble, titled, famous, or
   wealthy ancestry:
   young men of family.
   a group of persons who form a household under one head, including
   parents, children, and servants.
   the staff, or body of assistants, of an official:
   the office family.
   a group of related things or people:
   the family of romantic poets; the halogen family of elements.
   a group of people who are generally not blood relations but who share
   common attitudes, interests, or goals and, frequently, live together:
   Many hippie communes of the sixties regarded themselves as families.
   a group of products or product models made by the same manufacturer or
   producer.
   Biology. the usual major subdivision of an order or suborder in the
   classification of plants, animals, fungi, etc., usually consisting of
   several genera.
   Slang. a unit of the Mafia or Cosa Nostra operating in one area under a
   local leader.
   Linguistics. the largest category into which languages related by
   common origin can be classified with certainty:
   Indo-European, Sino-Tibetan, and Austronesian are the most widely
   spoken families of languages.
   Compare stock (def 12), subfamily (def 2).
   Mathematics.
     a given class of solutions of the same basic equation, differing
       from one another only by the different values assigned to the
       constants in the equation.
     a class of functions or the like defined by an expression
       containing a parameter.
     a set.
   adjective
   of, relating to, or characteristic of a family:
   a family trait.
   belonging to or used by a family:
   a family automobile; a family room.
   suitable or appropriate for adults and children:
   a family amusement park.
   not containing obscene language:
   a family newspaper.
   Idioms
   in a / the family way, pregnant.
family
   noun (pl) -lies
     a primary social group consisting of parents and their offspring,
       the principal function of which is provision for its members
     (as modifier): family quarrels, a family unit
   one's wife or husband and one's children
   one's children, as distinguished from one's husband or wife
   a group of persons related by blood; a group descended from a common
   ancestor Compare extended family
   all the persons living together in one household
   any group of related things or beings, esp when scientifically
   categorized
   (biology) any of the taxonomic groups into which an order is divided
   and which contains one or more genera. Felidae (cat family) and Canidae
   (dog family) are two families of the order Carnivora
   (ecology) a group of organisms of the same species living together in a
   community
   a group of historically related languages assumed to derive from one
   original language
   (mainly US) an independent local group of the Mafia
   (maths) a group of curves or surfaces whose equations differ from a
   given equation only in the values assigned to one or more constants in
   each curve: a family of concentric circles
   (physics) the isotopes, collectively, that comprise a radioactive
   series
   (informal) in the family way, pregnant
   Word Origin
   early 15c., "servants of a household," from Latin familia "family
   servants, domestics collectively, the servants in a household," thus
   also "members of a household, the estate, property; the household,
   including relatives and servants," from famulus "servant," of unknown
   origin. The Latin word rarely appears in the sense "parents with their
   children," for which domus (see domestic) was used.
   In English, sense of "collective body of persons who form one household
   under one head and one domestic government, including parents,
   children, and servants, and as sometimes used even lodgers or boarders"
   [Century Dictionary] is from 1540s. From 1660s as "parents with their
   children, whether they dwell together or not," also in a more general
   sense, "persons closely related by blood, including aunts, uncles,
   cousins;" and in the most general sense "those who descend from a
   common progenitor" (1580s). Meaning "those claiming descent from a
   common ancestor, a house, a lineage" is early 15c. Hence, "any group of
   things classed as kindred based on common distinguishing
   characteristics" (1620s); as a scientific classification, between genus
   and order, from 1753.
     I have certainly known more men destroyed by the desire to have wife
     and child and to keep them in comfort than I have seen destroyed by
     drink and harlots. [William Butler Yeats, "Autobiography"]
   Replaced Old English hiwscipe. As an adjective from c.1600; with the
   meaning "suitable for a family," by 1807. Family values first recorded
   1966. Phrase in a family way "pregnant" is from 1796. Family circle is
   1809; family man "man devoted to wife and children, man inclined to
   lead a domestic life" is 1856 (earlier it meant "thief," 1788, from
   family in a slang sense of "the fraternity of thieves").
     Happy family an assemblage of animals of diverse habits and
     propensities living amicably, or at least quietly, together in one
     cage. 
   The phrase is attested from 1844.
   family 
   n.
     A group of blood relatives, especially parents and their children.
     A taxonomic category of related organisms ranking below an order
       and above a genus.
   family
   A group of organisms ranking above a genus and below an order. The
   names of families end in -ae, a plural ending in Latin. In the animal
   kingdom, family names end in -idae, as in Canidae (dogs and their kin),
   while those in the plant kingdom usually end in -aceae, as in Rosaceae
   (roses and their kin). 
family definition
   In biology, the classification lower than an order and higher than a
   genus. Lions, tigers, cheetahs, and house cats belong to the same
   biological family. Human beings belong to the biological family of
   hominids. 
family
   see:
      in a family way
      run in the blood (family)
<T=1-8.txt>
   Who makes up a family?
   For most Americans today, family includes a range of loved ones--from
   children, parents and grandparents to spouses, significant others,
   siblings and close friends. However, the most prevalent family
   definitions in law and policy leave out many of these important
   relationships. All too often, policymakers define family narrowly,
   based on an outdated 1950s conception of a married husband and wife and
   their biological children. Fortunately, recent paid sick days victories
   in Los Angeles, Minneapolis and Chicago, as well as executive action by
   the White House, embrace a more realistic and inclusive definition.
   According to the U.S. Census, nearly 80 percent of households in the
   U.S. depart from the "nuclear family" model of a married husband and
   wife and their children. Many family trends contribute to this fact.
   For example, approximately 57 million individuals in the U.S. live in
   multigenerational households, double the 1980 figure, and about 20
   percent of households with children include non-relatives or extended
   family. Americans are also waiting longer to marry and are living with
   significant others at higher rates than in past decades. And surveys
   show that LGBTQ individuals, who are too often forced to leave home and
   build their own support networks, are more likely to rely on close
   friends for emotional support, caregiving needs and help in an
   emergency.
   This month, the country's second and third most populous cities took a
   big step forward in recognizing that families come in all shapes and
   sizes. Beginning on July 1, 2016, workers in Los Angeles will be
   entitled to earn a minimum number of paid sick days that can be used to
   care for personal or family health and safety needs. Workers in Chicago
   will gain this same right on July 1, 2017. The L.A. and Chicago paid
   sick days laws both cover a broad set of family relationships,
   including children, parents, spouses, domestic partners, parents of a
   spouse or domestic partner, grandparents, grandchildren and siblings.
   Yet both laws also set an important new standard for the growing paid
   sick days movement by including "chosen family"-- an individual with
   whom the worker has such a close relationship that the individual is
   equivalent to family, even absent a blood or legal relationship.
   These new laws will have enormous practical benefits for workers. For
   example, a 2007 Los Angeles County Health Survey found that 1.2 million
   residents in L.A. County provide informal, unpaid care to aging, ill or
   disabled adults. Of these caregivers, more than 23 percent -- or
   approximately 284,000 people -- reported that they provide care for
   close friends or extended family members (family members other than a
   child, parent, parent-in-law, spouse, domestic partner, grandparent or
   sibling). Many of these caregivers struggle to combine their work
   responsibilities with the need to care for loved ones, and
   employer-provided leave policies, when they exist at all, often fail to
   recognize these extended and chosen family members. The L.A. paid sick
   days coalition raised awareness about this need and worked with
   lawmakers to pass a paid sick days law that reflects the true nature of
   family and caregiving relationships in the city.
   Fortunately, we have a long-standing model for this definition. Our
   country's largest employer, the federal government, already allows more
   than 2 million federal employees to use paid leave to care for chosen
   family. The government's broad family definition has existed in
   personnel rules for more than five decades, and has repeatedly been
   expanded and applied more broadly without issue. The model is also
   being adopted in other contexts, including a presidential Executive
   Order that will guarantee paid sick days to employees of federal
   contractors. And last month, a bill was introduced in the U.S. House of
   Representatives to expand the FMLA's limited family definition to
   include new relationships, including chosen family.
   Other places are modernizing their family definition as well.
   Minneapolis recently passed a paid sick days law that is the first in
   the country to cover all members of the employee's household. When sick
   or during a medical emergency, we often seek care from those who are
   both emotionally and physically closest to us. Roommates, significant
   others, and additional members of the household -- whether extended
   relatives or close friends -- provide a critical care and support
   system. Minneapolis' new paid sick time law acknowledges the importance
   of these relationships.
   We are fortunate to work with national, state and local partners across
   the country who are fighting for policy change, collecting stories, and
   raising awareness about the need to expand family recognition. From
   Oregon, Montana and Arizona to New Mexico and Washington D.C., social
   justice advocates are pushing lawmakers to adopt broad family
   definitions that include chosen family. Cities as diverse as L.A.,
   Minneapolis and Chicago have recognized that families today are
   incredibly varied and dynamic. It's time for other cities and states to
   follow their lead.
   Wendy Chun-Hoon is the D.C. Director of Family Values @ Work. Jared
   Make is a Senior Staff Attorney at A Better Balance. Together, the
   authors created an LGBTQ/Work-Family Project that is working across
   social justice movements to advocate for the rights of LGBTQ workers
   and expand family definitions in law and policy.
<T=1-9.txt>
The Disappearing Nuclear Family And The Shift To Non-Traditional Households
Has Serious Financial Implications For Growing Numbers Of Americans
   01/25/2013 07:24 am ET | Updated Mar 27, 2013
   Debra Caruso Freelance writer, owner of DJC Communications
   Sandra Timmermann Ed.D., Intergenerational issues expert, director of
   the MetLife Mature Market Institute
   The 2010 Census revealed surprises about family structure and the
   composition of U.S. households. Disappearing at a rapid rate are homes
   with "traditional" nuclear families -- Mom, Dad and two children.
   Today, more and more Americans live alone. There are blended families,
   single parents, domestic partnerships and more.
   If Robert Young of the 50's TV favorite, "Father Knows Best," was to
   return, he might be a little bewildered, to say nothing of June and
   Ward Cleaver.
   Only 48.4 percent of households have a married couple; 20 percent of
   all households contain married couples who have children living with
   them. According to MetLife, almost 20 percent of households have
   children (of any age) from a prior relationship(s).
   Second in number are households with those living alone, a growing
   segment, 31 million compared to seven million in 1960 and 26.7 percent
   of the U.S. total. 9.6 percent are those headed by single parents,
   according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
   Past Images, New Circumstances
   Why is it, then, that the images we see so often in the media,
   particularly from advertisers and marketers selling us everything from
   soap to IPads, focus so much attention on marrieds with children, the
   growing MINority? The same goes for those promoting financial services
   and retirement investment products.
   Is it a lag in perception about American demographics? Or have we been
   slow to recognize that the aging population and longer life are
   factors?
   Or, is it a matter of where the wealth lies?
   Even though the pool is shrinking, couples are better prepared
   financially than others, especially those in first marriages. According
   to the New American Family study by MetLife's Mature Market Institute,
   more couples than non-couples have lowered their debt, met with a
   financial advisor and invested for retirement. Households headed by
   singles are vulnerable because there's only one income. A job loss can
   be devastating.
   Singles, statistically, have less education than the average American.
   They have the fewest assets and the lowest income. Not surprisingly,
   they report the highest concerns about retirement risks of any group in
   the survey.
   A crisis is developing for those in the majority, the non-traditional
   family.
   While many worry about the future of Social Security and Medicare, they
   are largely uninformed about retirement finances. Just about half have
   calculated how much monthly income they will need in retirement. Only
   28 percent believe they are on track to achieve their goals.
   Seventy-two percent of families surveyed by MetLife have children, most
   of whom are adult children, a huge shift from the 1950s and 1960s. With
   the economic downturn, those children, who may have been a safety net
   in retirement, are just the opposite. Many are turning to their parents
   for financial help, putting the older generation in financial jeopardy.
   Moms and Dads all over the U.S. are helping their sons and daughters
   who have lost jobs, income and houses.
   A recent MetLife study of grandparents confirms such generosity. 62
   percent of grandparents have given monetary gifts to their families and
   43 percent report that they have provided more financial support due to
   the economy. Experts caution that many grandparents do this at their
   own peril, since 34 percent say they are giving even though it is
   negatively affecting on their own bottom lines.
   Generosity may be a liability later when parents and grandparents find
   themselves facing financial risk and must look to those same children
   and grandchildren for support. Nearly four in ten respondents in all
   households, according to the New American Family study cited above, say
   they don't know where they'd turn if they were unable to meet financial
   obligations in retirement. While other studies have shown that children
   are generally there for their parents when needed, they might not be
   able to help if they do not begin making their own financial
   preparations.
   Implications and Advice
   Those in all configurations of families have concerns in common and
   others specific to their circumstances.
   A one-size-fits-all model and a singular approach to the planning
   process do not take into account all the variables. Singles without
   children, for example, are likely to be in greater need of a guaranteed
   income and of protecting against the high cost of long-term and medical
   care. Second-marriage couples in blended families with children from
   both marriages are likely to need sophisticated estate planning tools.
   Domestic partners will require legal assistance for health care
   proxies, employee benefits and inheritance. Couples with children may
   need to take into account the unexpected need to support their children
   and grandchildren.
   In summary, everyone in every type of family can and should take action
   sooner rather than later to seek basic guidance on retirement. They
   should heed the warnings of their elders. As old Jim Anderson of Father
   Knows Best may have wisely advised his kids, start saving early, invest
   wisely and seek the advice of trusted professionals. With that,
   children, parents and grandparents should be able to remain afloat
   throughout their lives without having to be a burden on their families.